You don't have the anymore. camera. took away. Let's go. I can't run. You don't I don't know. All right. Oh my god. heat. Okay. Tomorrow you should see open Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Yay. Heat. Heat. Hallelujah. Now we're meeting. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Hey, what's happening? Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Wow. What Wow. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. A very good evening PAP supporters, residents of Pongo GRC, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the PAP Pongo GRC rally. A very good evening ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us this evening at Yusovich Secondary School for the PAP Pongo Rally. Joining us very very shortly, we have our candidates from the PAP. Ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to invite our PAP Bongo GRC candidates. We have Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Gan Kim Yong, Senior Minister of State, Dr. Daniel Ptoerry, Mr. Minister of State, Miss Sun Shelling, and Miss Yong Wan Ling. Joining them this evening, we have our guest speakers, Senior Minister, Mr. Ti Hen, Minister of State Dr. Muhammad Baal, Mr. Zino Suffery and our local speakers M Miss Pravisa and Mr. Mark Tan. Ladies and gentlemen, presenting to you the Pongo GRC PAB candidates. It also gives me great pleasure to welcome our MC's on stage. Dr. David, Mr. David, Miss Diana Ismile, and Mr. Isam. MC's, please take over. Thank you. Thank you. A very good evening to BAB supporters, residents, families, and friends, and a very warm welcome to our PAB Pongo GRC Rally. Pungal GRC syndrome I'm David and I'm pleased to be your MC. And with me are my fellow MC's Nisam and Diana for this event which is very important to all of us. We have all come together to build a home that we all deserve. for and you are going to get to hear from a number of people from different areas of our community and definitely the candidates themselves. for Ladies and gentlemen, presenting to you our candidates of Bongo GRC, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. God Kim Yong. Next we have Senior Minister of State Dr. Ja Buchary. Next we have Minister of State Miss Swan Lang. and miss your one leg. Joining them, we have our guest speaker, senior minister, Mr. Ti Hen. Next we have Minister of State Dr. Muhammad Fal. Next we have Mr. Zina Sapari. And our local speaker we have Miss Pravita. Last but not the least, we have Mr. Mark. We wanted to be part of the people action party and to be at tonight's event because we are proud to be residents of Pongo for over 20 years. for is great living in Singapore especially in Pongo GC right. The town is vibrant and the community is warm. The facilities are great. But more importantly, we feel assured that we live in Pongo town looked after by leaders from the people action party led by DPM Gan Kimyong, Dr. Japerry, Miss Shuing, and Miss Yaning. who cares and has a heart for you. A team who really understand the needs of their people and a team who would action about your concerns and suggestions and make sure that your well-being is taken care of. Kimong Dr. Johnny Cherry. We want you to go away hearing the speakers this evening with an interest to see this community Pongo GRC develop making Pongo a better home for you. forging. So let's get started and let's get started now with our very first local speaker, Mr. Mark. HTB. for Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Spirit. foreignch. for sing. for Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Thank you, Mom. Now, May we now invite Miss Praa. Mallay van. Good evening everyone. My name is Pravita and I'm proud to stand before you as a Pongo resident who has been part of this vibrant community since 2019. My husband and I chose to build a home and a family in Pongol because of its harmony and exciting developments like the Pongol Regional Sports Center. It's a privilege to witness and contribute to the growth of Pongol. As a community leader, a worker in the transport sector, and a union leader with the National Transport Workers Union, I've had the honor of being part of the labor movement under NTU. Together with the PAP government, NTU has championed workers rights for over 60 years, bringing meaningful change to the heartlands of Pongol. Tonight, I want to shine a spotlight on a group of workers whose needs deserve greater attention. Our woman. For much of history, workplace policies have been written without considering the unique challenges women face. Yet often women bear a disproportionate share of caregiving responsibilities, juggling careers, raising children, caring for elderly parents, and managing households. All this while navigating their own health challenges. NTU together with our PVP government is committed to supporting women through every stage of life. For young mothers, we are championing flexible work arrangements, partnering with employers to pilot flexi time, hybrid options, and job redesigns to ensure a smooth transition back into the workforce without compromising family. For example, I have seen my very own colleagues, friends and family benefit from these initiatives, finding balance between their professional and personal lives. It is heartwarming for me when I hear how they feel these initiatives have helped them with plans to start a family myself. I too feel reassured. We are also working to elevate women into leadership roles including union leadership. Representation matters. It ensures women's voices are heard, their interests are acknowledged, and their needs are implemented in workplace policies. None of this progress happens in isolation. NTC and PAP share a symbiotic relationship driving policies that champion womanfriendly workplaces. Pongo residents, every word we cast matters. It is a commitment to value that prioritize parental leave, reemployment, and caregiving support. There is still much more to be done for women of every age in every job. But together we can continue this journey of progress ensuring that women are empowered and supported in all aspects of their lives. Thank you and let's keep walking this path. Show your support and vote for PAP. Thank you. Thank you. May we now invite Mr. Zina. Ladies and gentlemen, mommies and daddies, Aong and Amas, brothers and sisters, and all the little ones as well. Good evening and thank you for attending this rally. When I was invited to be the guest speaker, my first reaction was wow guest speaker like keynote speaker something important but you know right the reality not in an election rally in an election rally guest speaker whatever we say is not even recorded all right so I can say whatever uh I won today Pongo stands proud as a New GRC, Pongal GRC. With this new GRC comes a powerful opportunity for each single one of you to give a strong mandate to a team that has proven their ability to lead and serve. First things first, let me say from the bottom of my heart, I want to thank the Workers Party for stepping up to contest in Pongul GRC. Let us give them a big round of applause. Yes, seriously, because of them, you get to vote. Of course, you see them once every 5 years, but you still get to vote. Your applause is free but your vote is not free. Yeah. Yesterday I've read news that the voters of Marim pray GRC's they were disappointed of not being able to vote. Uh but I said it is only the voters that are disappointed not the candidates. The candidate must say hang no contest. Uh I am sure they are very relieved. I doubt you will ever hear a candidate saying wow I am disappointed there is no contest I want to fight. uh you won't hear if you had it means the candidate is saw I am not sure what happened at marine pray height grc go mang singh he's very upset with uh priam singh very angry he said priam didn't respect the marine pray voters what did priam said priam said they are not fielding a team because based on wp some calculations I suspect predominant the calculator spoiler. Anyway, anyway voters of Pongol GRC, you you can resolve this issue. You know how to resolve this issue. You vote for PAP at Pongo GRC. so that Priam Singh can send his Pongal team to Bin PR in the year 2013. Okay, brother I I must check. I forgot Dr. Faizel is from Marim PR. Anyway, voters of Pongo GRC, you might be asking me, "Ay, brother Zal, what's wrong with voting for the Wii Party?" "Oh, sorry. What's wrong for voting for workers party?" Uh, I have to say their rally at Sang Kang yesterday was an awesome party. I wanted to attend, but I am not sure. I wear white. I'm very honest. I don't lie uh whether I would be invited. Uh anyway, let me now share why you need to vote for the Pongol GRC team. Number one, you have an incredible team right here in Pongol GRC. This team, they are like the Avengers of Public Service. You have three appointment holder and one labor MP. You got DPM Gim Yong. This man he is so come under pressure when COVID hit. All of you are scrambling to find Mars. He didn't even flinch. Very steady. He is Mr. Cool. For as long as I have been an MP for 10 years, I have never seen Mr. Gun lose his temper or got angry. But he gets things done and CO is proof of that. Then we have Dr. General Putoerryi, our senior minister of state. He is the one that is responsible for all the digital development and information efforts in Singapore. In Pongal course, he pushed for a green and familyfriendly environment. He is very smart but yet very down to earth. Give a big round of applause to Dr. Jennwelling. Formerly she was with Pongold Pares Pongold GRC but the last election she became an SMC. But we love her so much. We wanted her back. To all the mommies and daddies, Miss Sun has been responsible for ensuring that your children have access to affordable child care, affordable free school. She even champion for all the mommies and daddies to have better parenthood benefits. All right, this is Missan. you will want to have her in parliament. Last but not least, we have Miss Yo Wan Lang, our Labor MP. When she joined the labor movement, when she joined NTU, it fit her like a glove. She was able to help so many workers inme. She helped so many women. She helped so many low-wage workers. If helping low-wage workers is an Olympic sport, Miss Yo one ling would have bought gold to Singapore. Miss your one lang. Ladies and gentlemen, now I know that the workers party in their rally they will come and tell you we will lower the cost of living, we will lower GST, we will improve education, we will give you better job blah blah blah blah. All in their manifesto. In their manifesto are all suggestions. In order for it to become policy, where are the details? How much will it cost? Where will the funding come from? What are the trade off? These are all never shared with you because it is very difficult for them to fulfill their promise. PAP gave you a manifesto. Workers party said that these are all motherhood statements. They are headline if they think these are motherhood statements. If it is, if PAP manifestos are motherhood statements, you will not see all this development around you. You will not see Singapore progressing from a fishing village to a first world country. All of you, you have a copy of the manifesto. Hold on to the manifesto. If we fail to deliver our promise as what is written in the manifesto, see your MP. All right? Hold them accountable. Prime Minister Lawrence Wong has said that Singapore is heading into challenging times. We need leaders with experience. We need calm. We need vision. We need action, not trial and error governance. We don't want our country to become workers party experiments. But our prime minister, he cannot do it alone. He need the support of his team. He need the support of each single one of you. So you must vote for PM Lawrence Wong. Vote for PAP. Vote for Pongol GRC PAP team. Ladies and gentlemen, PAP has built Pongo from a sleepy corner to one of the most vibrant and youthful estates in Singapore. This didn't happen by luck or all right. It happened because of long-term planning and solid policies. So don't take chances. Don't gamble your vote. This is not any 4D lottery. Vote for experience. Vote for stability. Vote for transparency. Vote for integrity. Vote for honesty. Vote for people who just talk the talk but never get things done. Vote for progress. Vote for PAP. I have chosen those words carefully because no opposition parties have the proven tech record to show that they have achieved all this. Anyway, all of you have been such a great audience. I will sing you a song. This is a famous song that is viraling. I have to give credit to the original uh singer Samuel Lee from uh PPP party. All right, are you ready? I just give you the lyrics. I look left, look right, look left, look right. See PAP MPs doing right, making Pongal shining bright. I look left, look right, look left, look right. Vote you to see you vote for PAP and say bye-bye to WP. Thank you, Bongol. Stay united, stay safe, and don't forget to bring your IC during polling day. Majula PAP, Majula Singapura, Majula Pongo GRC. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Ziner. Vote for BA. Now, may I now invite Dr. Fija Ibraim. Dr. Fija, please. Salamudo GRC. Pungulat. for Jack Russ. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Gan Kim Yong Singapore. Islam Dr. Premiere SG is active. See Dr. Jan Islam. One taxi positive One ling. Unil PG GRC. committed. Fore check up. P A DGRC roll. for Singapore. for Singapore. for Islam. for ache. Singority. forcive progressive identity. justch. Islam is sensitive. PP class. politic Identity. foreign destru. Marilita politic identity. party major. Thank you Dr. Faiza Unilina Pab. Now we may we invite Miss Yo one lang residents, my union brothers and sisters, friends and supporters of the PAP. Good evening in Mal Vanam. My name is Yo Wan Lang and together with DPM Gan Kim Yong, SMS Janil Putucherry, MOS Sunshelling, I stand before you as the PAP candidate for Pongo GRC. It seems just like yesterday that I joined the Pongo family and it is a large family, one that is full of warmth, of dreams and aspirations. I am thankful for the trust and friendships we have built throughout the years. It is a friendship that is built from every cup of coffee that we drank together. From every warm hug you have given me. From every festival we spend together. From every tear we shed together. From every 3 a.m. email I have received from you and every visit I have made to your homes. As we continue to work together to make Pongol a beautiful, better home for all of us, it is important that we continue to ensure that our Pongo remains to be a home that energizes our seniors, support our families, and protect our youth. As I look around today, I see many familiar faces. While many think of Pongol as a young town with many young families, many in the crowd today and online watching our broadcast have lived in Pongo for over 20 years. Pongul is the first marital home for many here and they have built their entire lives in Pongo, raised their children here and indeed grown older with Pongo. We need to ensure that we continue to develop our Pongo town with the necessary facilities and programs to support our seniors as they grow older with us. I thank the uncles and aunties, grandpas and grandmas who have welcome me into your lives and I enjoy our frequent chats and sessions at the coffee shops. I hear you and I know that you would like to have more support and facilities to help you age well in Pongol Town. I have worked hard on getting community partners and our government agencies to bring in more initiatives to support you locally. Two years ago, we launched our second free TCM clinic in Pongosaw. The Sutek Medical Institution is a groundup initiative supported by our tu community from Sutek Xiang. Today, the center is bustling and they have expanded their services to include weekly outreaches into the community such as free health talks in our coffee shops and partnering with our grassroots on senior exercises in our void decks. We will also partner with Sparkle Care and Allins to set up Pongo Shaw's first ever active aging hub and a second active aging center will be set up in one of our precincts by the end of the year. In addition, I am very happy to share after countless feedbacks from our uncles and aunties that with the help of our community partners, we will be restarting our popular copy corner after a 2-year hiatus. In fact, four of our copy corners have already resumed operations in Coral, Oasis, Zanis, and Horizon. And I expect for a full network to be up by the end of the year. One run. Isach woman, the I will continue to love and care for our seniors and know that the PAP will always treasure the bonds we have with our pioneer and ma generations. Our Pongo families are the bedrock to our Pongo fabric and I'm honored that our families have shared with me their aspirations and challenges so frankly and vulnerably. Missy, a homemaker, was going through a divorce and with three children and one with special medical condition, she was at her wit's ends when it came to making ants meet for her family. Miss P left the workforce to care for her daughters during their PSLE years. And with employers questioning her gap years and multiple rejections for work, she had lost almost all her confidence when she came to see me. Mr. Tay, 56 years old, was suddenly retrenched at the peak of his career and was at a loss on what to do. Madame H is a sandwich caregiver, having to care for her children and her senior loved ones while balancing her career. She said, "We're the sandwich generation, but we feel more like we're in a pressure cooker." My dear Pongo residents, these aren't just stories to me. You, you are the faces I see when I stand up in parliament to speak. Know that your stories have made an impact to our Singaporean laws and change our Singaporean way of life in a positive way. When I advocated strongly for flexible work arrangements to be made a core workplace practice, I was thinking of mothers like Madame H and Madame C who needed flexibility to balance family and career. When I pushed for the progressive wage model to extend to more sectors, I was remembering the pride in Mr. TA's voice when he told me about earning a decent living wage in his new role. When I fought for the landmark workplace fairness legislation that will protect women from discrimination, I was picturing Madame P and every single woman in Pongo who has ever been denied a job or promotion because she was pregnant or had family responsibilities. And for you, our platform workers, the food delivery riders you see throughout Pongo, the private hire drivers who take you safely home late at night. I've advocated fiercely for better protections. Many of our workers live right here in our community and they deserve fair compensation, injury protection, and adequate CPF contributions. That's why I spoke up repeatedly to ensure the recommendations of the advisory committee on platform workers were implemented, giving our hardworking platform workers the security they deserve. I have to tell you these issues aren't abstract policy matters to me. They are about real people in Pongul whose dignity and livelihoods are at stake. That's the perspective I bring to parliament. Your perspective here in Congo too. We've made sure local support is accessible to our families through all seasons in their lives and professional careers. Through NTU, we have expanded work programs in Pongo such as the see you back at work program that enables return to work mothers and caregivers access to flexible work arrangements. We have career fairs where you can speak directly to employers who are genuinely hiring. mentorship programs to support and prepare women to return to the workplace. And I'm particularly proud of our unique Pongo homegrown initiatives for jobs. The job container that started as a small idea when I first became an MP, it grew into a WSG program. Project Success is a 20 program where we've helped over 8,000 residents find new employment, many which are community- based. And our upcoming SIT entrepreneur program will help mid-career risk launch into business ownership. Pongo residents, these programs aren't just about finding jobs. I know that they are about restoring dignity and creating stability for Pongo families. When you share your challenges with me, I don't just listen, I act upon them. And I'll keep doing so as long as you allow me to serve you. Pongo Shaw has the highest number of teenagers in all of Pongo Town. And I must say that our Pongo kids are really great kids. I meet our little ones at Oasis Tusces with their friends at the library studying for their exams at the basketball courts showing off their skills. Just last month, a group of sector students cornered me after a community event and they weren't shy at all. Miss Yo, they said, we're worried about what jobs will even exist when we graduate. And their concerns stuck with me. That's why we started programs like cool jobs in your neighborhood, where young people meet professionals right here in Pongo who are doing exciting work. We will also be introducing a new behindthe-scenes tour program where parents and teens can visit workplaces together. I bet seeing cyber security operations centers through the eyes of a 15year-old and his dad or mom, both equally amazed by that the technology would be important for families to navigate these career landscapes together. But I've also seen darkness in our young people's lives. There was a growing concern about mental wellness of youth in the community, especially in the area of cyber bullying and online harms. And you know what? Our Pongo community rallied together to tackle this concern with the messaging of positivity and assurance that the community will always stand to offer its help to every single one of our Pongol youth. I am proud that we managed to mobilize many helping hands, community helping hands to raise awareness for a positivity pizza movement where we hand sewn 20,000 fabric pizzas to give to every single one of our Pongo Shaw youth. We want to tell them that we love you. Through the positivity pizza movement, we've also partner with organizations to help our youth report and remove harmful online content. But there's much more to do. And I'm committed to creating more meaningful programs alongside our parents for our youth. making more safe and fun places for our teenagers such as our City Sprouts at Turbing Lane and our Pongo Shaw Playfield. Parents, please know that your children matter to me. Their hopes and worries keep me working late into the night thinking about how we can make Pongo not just a place for them to grow up, but a community that helps them grow strong. To my friends and residents in Pongol, I ask for your mandate to continue as your voice in parliament. I'm not asking as a politician. I'm asking as someone who has shared meals in your home, celebrated your children's successes, and worried alongside you. I'll continue to be your voice, honest, clear, and unafraid to speak up on what matters to us in Pongo. When I rise to speak in parliament about flexible work arrangements, fair treatment for workers, protection against workplace discrimination. I bring your stories with me to parliament. Your experiences give power to my words and your challenges inform the solutions that I fight for. Most importantly, I promise that I'll continue to be your friend. Someone who does doesn't make promises during elections time, but will walk alongside you every day of the year. Just as one of our Pongo uncles just proclaimed to me earlier today, please vote for the PAP Singapura. Thank you. Thank you. Now, may we invite Missing My dear residents, my dear children, thank you for joining me for tonight's rally. Tonight, I would like to discuss two topics that are of great interest to our Pongo families and children. Pongo is a young and growing town. Many of our residents take public transport to work, to study, to send their family members around. One hour spent on the road is one hour spent away from the family, away from their loved ones. And that is an additional hour that could have been spent more productively on something else. And I know this feeling very well. 29 years ago when I was still a student, it took me 1 and a half hours to go to school. I remember walking for 20 minutes to get to the MRT station, taking the MRT for 20 minutes, taking a bus for another 15 minutes, and then walking to the school for another 15 to 20 minutes. By the time I arrived in school, I was exhausted and drained and that impacted my studies. So, transport issues affects physical and mental well-being. I know this. I know these are your concerns. I'm with you four to five days a week, every week for the past five years. How can I not know that transport issues are on your mind? We do not need strangers to come to Pongo to talk to just any resident to find out what is on your mind. We know this. All of us on the stage know this. The important thing is what do we do about it? We have been hard at work at it. Let me just give you an example. The twocar RRT carriage, this was ordered in January 2022. It arrived in Singapore in November 2024. It has been put to testing and we are rolling it out for service in July 2025. My dear residents, just this one item, just this one item took 3.5 years. And you look around us, roads are being built, MRT lines are being built. Yes, lots of digging happening around Pongo. But my dear residents, what you see is a pongo that is constantly developing and with development there is upside potential for all of us and that is something that we should be looking forward to to know that Pongo is becoming a more and more valuable estate year by year. Apart from working with government agencies to deliver a better home for you, I've also been working hard to galvanize community resources and to deliver groundup solutions to meet the needs of our families and our children. When I came to Pongo 10 years ago, let me be clear. In Pongo West, there was nothing, no facilities. I looked around me, so many young families, so many young children, not even a library for them. Yes, we now have a wonderful Pongo Regional Library, but 10 years ago, we did not have it. So, what did I do? I launched a groundup initiative to build a container library for little children because I wanted them to be able to start reading as early as possible. I want to make sure that our Pongo children has as good a start as all the other children in the rest of Singapore. And that is how our little container library which started in 2016. It started with 3,500 books. Now fast forward to 2023. Our children had grown up by then. They were in primary school. They were in secondary school. And the amazing Pongo Regional Library had already then been launched. And we could see that there was no further need for the container library. And so we upgraded the container library to the lighthouse at Pongo. What is the lighthouse? The lighthouse is a safe space for our children and youth where they can receive free academic support, attend free enrichment classes such as drama and choir, and have access to mentors and counselors. These services address real needs of families and the challenges that our children currently face. How did I come up with this idea? My friends, my dear residents, it is through what I saw when I came to Pongo. I recall meeting a father who came to MPS to see me. He was the sole bread winner and he was working two jobs. His wife was a full-time homemaker and she was taking care of her child who was in primary school and the child was taking tuition for all his subjects. The father was under financial strain. He spoke to me. He said, "I have to work hard to support my family. I don't want my son to end up like me going nowhere." And as he said that, his voice trailed off and tears welled up in his eyes. I also met a young boy who spent all his hours after school in the Pongo West Void Deck CC, which basically only had a registration counter. He was there every night, sorry, every day after school for hours playing with his mobile phone. Why? His parents felt that it was safer for him to be at the Voit Deck CC registration counter than to be alone at home. He had no place to go. My dear residents, my dear children, these stories struck me deeply in my heart. My children, my Pongo children deserve better. And so we had the Continental Library and now we have the lighthouse. The board of the lighthouse comprises the dean of N US medicine, the CEO of IMH, the former CEO of KitStart. The programs at the lighthouse are carefully curated. I want the best for our children in Pongo and already lives have been transformed. Let me share with you some real stories. There is Adrien, a teenager with social anxiety. He came to the lighthouse because he was referred to us by a social worker. He could not hold a decent conversation with people. He was very very shy. He had social anxiety. So he joined drama classes which was based on game play game based role play. And through these interactive sessions, he is now more confident, more able to talk to people, able to socialize. And then we have Yen, a 11year-old boy who was prone to outbursts. He often called himself bad names, used bad words on himself. He called himself a liar, a bad boy. Many teachers, many people didn't know what to do with him. Our mentors, our counselors worked with him. and we found out that he had been traumatized by the death of a family member. Through conversations with him, the counselor worked with Yen to stop self-lame and to think positive thoughts. He now has aspirations to be a sportsman. He has aspirations to do well. And then there is Dan, 9 years old. I first got to know him at MPS. And he struck me by telling me how much he loved his four-year-old sister. He said, "I sleep on the floor so that my sister can sleep on the one mattress we have at home." That night, I could barely sleep. Through the child well-being program at the lighthouse, we furnished the family with all the furniture that they needed for their three young children. Dan also started coming to the lighthouse for academic support. He started participating in the choir where our children sing songs of dreams of hope and they are able to aspire to a better future. My dear parents, my dear children, in Pongo we spare no effort we spare no effort in galvanizing community resources. We want to create conditions for our children to thrive and to flourish. And there is so much we can look forward to in Pongo. Recently, I updated our Pongo parents that we will have a new primary school, a new secondary school, and a junior college in Pongo. The Singapore Institute of Technology has also opened its campus since September last year. At full capacity, it will be able to accommodate 11,000 undergraduates. So, I say this to you, my dear parents, my dear children. The future is bright for our children and youth here in Pongo. The best chapters are still being written. We do not need to travel far for opportunities for our children. We are bringing these opportunities to Pongo for you. We are bringing this closer to home for you because we are a party of action. We are the people's action party. Katya soon. Soch. And here you Fore speech. RC center. foreign. for speech. for HDB. for speech. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore HDB. Fore! Fore!chch! Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore speech. for Jimmy. Fore! Fore! Fore! forch. for woman. Woman Fore! Foreign! Foreign! woman. Now, may we invite Dr. Ja put the cherry welcome. Come on. Come on. Good evening friends. Some of you visiting from outside of Pongal, you you may know me as someone who perhaps appeared on TV making some documentaries. Just a few. I have to remind my boss it's a side gig. My main job is here for you. You know me well. and the residents of Pongol, the families of Pongol. I think sometimes you know me as that MP who likes to joke around kid with the kids. I love children. It's a partly a lifetime of working with them. Partly raising three of my own who have become young men. But tonight we cannot kid around. No jokes. I'm not going to make any jokes because what we have to talk about tonight is very serious. It's about the future of Pongo, the future of our town. Where do we want to go? What kind of town do we want to be? As we've walked around during the campaign, many of you have come up and asked me, "What's your 5-year plan?" And I I asked, I said, "Okay, uh, you have half an hour, I can tell you. You have 45 minutes, I can tell you. You want me to break it down into a threeline slogan? It's not fair to the many many dreams and ambitions that we have for Pongo like Miss Sununing and Miss Yoaning have talked about and what DPM gun is going to talk about. There's a lot of things going on many many different things and we had to draw the map for our manifesto for the campaign. It was so crowded we had to decide what to leave out and you'll see all these details in the map. You'll see all these details in the manifesto and DPM Gangqing Yong is going to talk about some of our plans going forward for the last for the next 5 years. But I thought today I would talk a little bit about how to understand what we have already done and maybe think about what is the lesson that we learn for our future. You have seen Pongal grow and change. If you've been here for 15 years, there are many things that have opened up. Juan Pongol, Northshore Plaza, Oasis Terraces, the regional library, Saffra, Coney Island Park, our linear parks. If you've only been here a few years, you've also seen things change. New businesses moving in, new options for food, new services. Many many things have been developed and we have many plans going forward because our town has been rapidly growing and it will continue to develop. In a rapidly growing town, not everything is smooth and certainly it's not easy. We have had to deal with noise and congestion, dust and delays. But patience and hard work, things improve. Some services like the telco connectivity in our newest BTO's have taken time to fix and we are still improving. Not perfect, not solved. But we will fix all of these issues. We will we will address the problems in the new estates. We will make sure your homes are clean and wellmaintained. We're not done making Pongal a better home for you. But a better home is not only about the buildings. It's not. It's much more. It's about the bonds of friendship, the relationships, the neighborhoods, turning strangers into neighbors, neighbors into friends, friends into an extended family. That is an important part of building our home. Bringing people together, not splitting them apart. You will have seen this happen. Bringing people together. That's what we do. And we have so much more to do together. When we have strong bonds in our community, when we have strong bonds of friendship and trust in our community, we can deal with any crisis that the world throws at us. When we have strong bonds of friendship, we can deal with any crisis like we did in CO. We've done it before, we'll do it again. With strong bonds in our community, we can reach out to help the most vulnerable. As you've heard from my colleagues, Pungal Regional Library, it's the biggest public library in Singapore. It's a wonderful building. It's beautiful inside. But when I take visitors there, international visitors, people coming to see what we do, the most important things that we discuss is how inclusive the library is. the programs and facilities for seniors, the books and assisted devices that specially cater to children with special needs, the programs that we are still developing for reading to young children in their mother tongue. It takes a community coming together, working together over many, many years to build a better home. After the facilities are built, the work continues so that the benefits are available for everyone. But sometimes the work starts long before the building is built. This is what happened with the Singapore Institute of Technology, SIT. Long before the campus was built, the leadership worked with us. The leadership of the university worked with us so that their students would have the opportunity to be part of Pongol, volunteering for community services, participating in our activities, learning about building community networks. And now that they've moved in, that partnerships continues. The many thousands of students of SIT are very much part of the Pongal family. SIT is part of the Pungal Digital District. It's a large project. It combines a university, commercial spaces, a retail mall. I chaired the committee looking at this for many years looking at how to manage the issues of the development to minimize the problems for the existing residents of Pongal. You're building this wonderful facility, but it takes a bit of patience from the neighborhoods next door because of the dust and the noise of congestion, but a bit of patience and understanding and something wonderful is delivered at your doorstep. But that committee had to do the work to make sure that it happened properly to make sure that the work when it was done would deliver an exciting place for students to learn and a great place to work together. The integration of SIT and the Pungal Digital District. This was what we were do trying to do and PDD will bring in about 28,000 jobs into Pongul good jobs in the tech sector jobs for the SIT students and jobs for the residents of Pongal. It's also a very beautiful place. I I I'm a little bit shy about saying this next bit because actually quite a lot of people are already going there and taking a lot of Instagram pictures and so the university, you know, the students need to do their work. But it is a beautiful place. It's a digital district. It's a university. It's built in the middle of our public housing estates. It's got a park in the middle of it and it goes down to the waterfront. Can you imagine a student canteen on the waterfront? Where else in sing except in Singapore and in Pongal. So that student canteen when I have visitors, international dignitaries, uh my choice is not to take them to a hotel in Orchard Road. I take them to the best student canteen in Singapore, the Pungal Digital District Student Canteen. say this is what we have for our students by the waterfront and as Pungal Digital District opens up it will completely transform our town and create many opportunities but PDD is not the first time that we have reimagined what Pongal could offer to our residents. We did it on a much smaller scale with our linear parks. The residents of Pongul, you will know about these linear parks. From one Pongul, if you come out, there are three parks that connect you all the way south to the TPE. Many years ago, all of that land under the LRT tracks was empty. Uh this is the empty land that Miss Suniling was talking about when she started in Pongo West. One section in particular, the southernmost between Pongo Field Road and the TPE was a concern. It's right next to some of the HDB blocks, right next to people's homes, but under the LRT tracks, it was poorly lit. Sometimes the grass a little bit long, sometimes a little bit of litter. It looked unsightly. We were concerned, the community leaders, myself, we were concerned that it might attract unwelcome activities. It might become a place where there's litter, where pests will gather. At the time, the rules were that you couldn't build anything under a LRT track. That's what the that's the rule that they had under the LRT track for safety reasons cannot build. So what to do? One of the suggestions was okay if it's a safety issue litter worried about safety maybe you fence the whole thing up. But actually that would have created even more of an eyesaw. Can you imagine this fenced green area in the middle of our HTB estates? So I worked with the community leaders and we designed a park. We got the funds together. We persuaded LTA. We worked with them over many many meetings and we said let us try to implement our ideas. We built the first park together with a multi-purpose sports court, playgrounds, other amenities. We put in walkways. We put in lighting. It was a success. If you're living in Pongul, you know what a nice familyoriented wonderful place it is for people to gather. It brought life and activity very much enjoyed by the residents. So we went on build another one on the other side of the road still under the LRT tracks towards the MRT station. Many other parks, but sometimes sometimes things didn't go so well. The second park, well, it didn't quite thrive. The plants maybe didn't quite like the light. some of the quiet corners. It looked like a nice idea on paper, but in real life didn't get used in quite the right way. We have started to rejuvenate and refresh this park. Some of you will see all the hoardings up outside of the 273C coffee shop and we are getting that park refreshed and it will be done and completed by next month and we will open up your refreshed linear park. We went on we went on to build a third park from one Pongal to the MRT station. We learned all of these lessons and our third park is bright. It's got basketball courts. It's got playgrounds. It's got fitness stations. It's full of life. And these three parks have become a walkable corridor from one Pungal all the way to the edge of the TPE. Life and greenery, shared spaces in the heart of our Pungal HDB estates. But but you see today today today the idea of building a community facility under an LRT track is seen as quite normal. Other parts of Singapore people will try it. But it took us many many years trying persisting building again and again small small steps towards a shared vision. Not by starting with a loud and flashy slogan, not by making unbelievable promises, but having a humble understanding of the hard work and what it means to have a determination to serve the people. Not flashy slogans, not unbelievable promises. When we promise, we deliver. We know that's our duty. We have to do it. That's what residents expect. So, we choose our words carefully. We make our promises solemnly and we do our duty. We are not done building a better Pongal. We now we we we now are looking forward to the sports center. All of us are looking forward to the sports center, especially the five swimming pools. But but we're not waiting. We're not waiting. That's not what we have we can do. Our our residents, the people we serve, they are they already enjoy sports and fitness. They have wanted activities for many years. We can't just say, "Yeah, wait for the stadium." We've already started to find ways to activate our community spaces. You see this everywhere in Pongul town square, community square, one Pongul along the waterway park, no sports facilities. So we work with the community using school fields, working with the community leaders, developing Zumba, K-pop. I I'm not even sure what K-pop looks like. One day I'll try. I did say I wasn't going to make any jokes. I couldn't help it. Sorry. We have an active community network organizing training for football especially bringing families together. But all of this what I've just described sports in the community it's not a new idea. It's not a special pongal thing that we did. We didn't come up with it alone. We looked around the rest of Singapore and we saw what people were doing. But we know that you can't just say, you can't just ask. You have to take action. bring people together. There has to be that trust. There has to be people who are involved, who are accountable. It takes the development of relationships and community leadership. That is what Miss Yoan Ling, Miss Sunueling and I, Januka Cherry, what that is what we have been doing. developing the networks, building the bonds, finding the partners, identifying the needs, and fixing your problems as your PAP elected members of parliament. And now, and now for the next chapter of the Pongo story, we have DPM Gan Kim Yong. as part of the Pongo family and we want to work with him. We want him to continue to make Pongal a better home for you. Friends and residents of Pongol, I hope we can have the chance to continue to complete the work that we've started to build on what we've achieved together, implement many new programs and services so that together we can make Pongol a better home for you. Vote PAP for Pongol. Our next speaker is someone well known to Pungal. He has served Singapore and Pongal for many years. He entered politics in 1992. He has served as deputy prime minister and coordinating minister for national security. It's been my honor to have been part of his team and to learn from him these past 14 years. He has provided an incredible example of dedication to public service and a role model of serving the community. My deepest appreciation and thanks to our next speaker, Senior Minister Joe. Yeah. Tiger Hall. ladies and gentlemen, my Pongo family. It's a great pleasure to be here with you this evening. I'm going to speak in Malay and in English and I'm going to deal with an important subject which is how we build unity and community in our multi-racial and multi-religious Singapore. So let me start in Malayu. Pasalania tunat. in Lawrence Wong. Anyong Wangalu Islam Singapura harmony. Conflict. Conflict. Conflict. conflict lion right Singapura hunter Ma Gaza Singapura Sik Mal Sassan and youngsta PME Rama initiative initiative Islam College Islam Singapura Lulan College social context Singapura, Blessings in Harmony, Catholic, Christian, Buddha, Hindu, Kulan Masarak including biker schola harops. cost. Fore harmonita. Utama right Singapura Singapura Lawrence Wong Mena Singap unto Masa. Singapura stabiling. PA Dr. the periin timber Singapura. My dear residents of Pongol, first of all, let me thank you for your support and friendship over the past 24 years. I've been with you in Pongul for many years, grown up with you and also met many new residents as you started your families here. And I work together with Dr. Janil, Miss Sunun, and Miss Yoan Ling to help your families settle in and your children to grow up. Pongal is now so beautiful and so peaceful. The waterway schools like this school was not here when we first started up as MPs here in Pongul. We have child care, one Pongol, malls and our poly clinic. And the future of Pongol is bright. You heard from Dr. Janil Misun and Yawan Ling. There are so many things to look forward to. So let us cherish the beauty, peace and harmony that we enjoy in Pongo. But apart from the physical facilities, it's our care for one another that makes Bongol so special and so close. All our residents, we look after them. Newborns, students, young adults, working parents, and our valued seniors. We are very clear that their daily needs, bread and butter issues must always be top of the list and top priority. We do this through government programs, but also through our social assistance programs locally like local burseries and our project success for finding jobs closer to home. You heard today what Miss Sunn described about lighthouse, what Dr. Janu described, what Miss Yoaning described as the work they've done with you. One particular example I'd like to bring out for building a multi-racial community in Bongol is blessings in harmony. Our mosque here in Bongol Masid al-Isla leads blessings in harmony with our various religious organizations, Catholics, Christians, Buddhists, Hindu, biker groups, community groups and students. This is community inaction for our people here in Pongo. Action together. This emphasizes our priority on bread and butter issues and also does so in a way that builds harmony among all races and religions. In contrast to the peace and harmony we enjoy in Singapore, we see tragic conflicts around the world. These conflicts, especially the conflict in Gaza, have raised emotions in Singapore, too. The Singapore government's position is very clear. We have condemned the illegal use of force from all sides against innocent civilians. We support a two-state solution which includes the establishment of a Palestinian state and we have voted for this at the UN. I visited the region and met Palestinian, Israeli and regional leaders many times over many years to have a deeper understanding of the situation there and how it is evolving. I have explained quietly and behind closed doors the issues involved to many Singaporean groups, including Malay Muslim groups, what Singapore's principal stand is so that there is more understanding and we don't create friction and conflict among ourselves. Mr. Gerald Gam has also traveled with Minister Vivian Balak Krishnan and met Palestinian, Israeli and other leaders. He I think in his younger days had also served in our MFA. He should therefore understand the situation and that there are no magic solutions for this longstanding problem that can suddenly resolve the conflict. So I hope that Mr. Gerald Glam will also take the time to explain this to his own colleagues so that in the heat of this general election, we do not inadvertently inflame emotions among Singaporeans and so that we can focus on the real issues, the real bread and butter issues and the needs of Singaporeans. We all want the war to stop and to help the victims. Emotions can run high. But do we let our sorrow over this tragedy become anger and turn into conflict? Conflict among Singaporeans, especially when this conflict is not one between Singaporeans. Do we allow that to happen? We should not. and must not. Instead, let us channel our sorrow into compassion, our anger into understanding, and our desire to hit out into actions to help out. This is what all religions teach anyway. And we will do well to look into our own hearts and find the compassionate path. the path to peace and harmony here in Singapore and not the path to contention and conflict in our own society. Instead of allowing conflicts elsewhere to divide us, many Singaporeans, regardless of race or religion, have indeed united to send aid to the victims in Gaza, in Pongal, and in Paraseris. I know this community organizations and individuals have contributed generously, many of you here, I'm sure, for relief work in Palestine through the RLAF set up by the Majist Ugama Islam Singapura. And we did so regardless of race or religion and we use we did not allow the conflict to divide us. The conflict was something and the tragedy was something that united us to help the victims and this is what Singapore is about. We also don't want foreigners to interfere with our p our politics. Similarly, we also must be very careful not to import the attitudes and the quarrels elsewhere and especially in Singapore's neighborhood into Singapore and let these divide our society. One of the key foundations of Singapore is the unity and harmony that all communities in Singapore have painstakingly built together. Each community makes adjustments for each other so that we can maximize our common space and live peacefully and harmoniously together. We don't want to let these issues be exploited to divide our people. This is not the politics that we should have in Singapore. It will lead us backwards and destroy the harmony we have all taken 60 years to build together. If each community presses for its own special interests above all and above those of other communities, we will create friction and there will be push back. And this will cause the unraveling of our community harmony in Singapore. And we must not let that happen in Singapore. We must not let that happen in Pongul. So let us choose wisely, choose to build unity and not let the ideas of those who seek to divide enter here into Pongo. Look at the beautiful Pong that we have today. It's such a wonderful place. And now we have DPM Gimyong to lead our team here to make Pongol even better. Now is the time when we especially need unity. While dark clouds have formed over the global economic and geopolitical scene, there is much uncertainty over what the major economic powers will do. But we know that we have to prepare ourselves for this changed and challenging world. And DPM gun is at the front line of this. On 8th April, barely a week after these extraordinary tariffs were announced by President Trump, PM Lawrence Wong appointed DPM Gun to chair the Singapore Economic Resilience Task Force to address these problems formemes, for our companies, for our workers. and he is hard at work as this even in the middle of this general election because there's no time to waste. But I will let DPM gun let you know what he is doing and what he's planning to do in his own words. Let me say a little bit about DPM gun. He was appointed DPM in 2014 and has been Minister for Trade and Industry since 2021. He has been a member of parliament since 2001 and been an MP in Chukang GRC for 14 years since 2011. And before he became a minister, he was working in the private sector as the president and CEO of a major company. He is also the chairman of our monetary authority of Singapore. And as you know and as my colleague Mr. Zal described just now, he was the co-chair of our multi-ministry task force during CO that steered us through safely. He is the most experienced member of PM Lawrence Wong's team. And through this GE, PM Lawrence Wong intends to bring in more capable and committed people to strengthen his 4G team, not just for the next 5 years, but for the next 10 to 15 years for Singapore and for you. So fellow Singaporeans, Pongo residents, I urge you. Please vote for the PAP, vote for the team you know and trust here in Pongul and all over Singapore. Let us help Prime Minister Lawrence Wong have the strongest possible team to lead us into the future. So residents of Singapore, are we delighted to welcome DPM Gadimong? Yes, DBM can continue. All yours. Residents and friends of Pongo Gia. I am Gan Kim Yong and I am here. Good evening to all of you and our friends and brothers and sisters from the NTU. I am very happy and honored to join the PAP Bongol GRC team just three days ago. I'm a newbie in this new town. So I want to thank you for welcoming me into your Pongo big family. First, let me thank Senior Minister Tio Chihen for his decades of service to Pongo and to Singapore. Not many of you know that SMTO provided valuable guidance to the multi-ministerial task force the MTF especially on the infection management of doaties and foreign workers during coid9 pandemic. So together with my team members, I would like to invite you to join me once again to thank Senior Minister Tio. This year we celebrate SG60, 60 years since our independence. Pongo's development is a shining example of how we are never done building Singapore from third world to the first. Pongo started off as a rural area with Kongs all across the area. In the 1990s when Minister Gochukong was our prime minister, there was a plan to develop Bongo into Bongo 21. Then Prime Minister Lie announced even a bolder plan, Bongo 21 plus. And I remember I remember sitting in the audience when Prime Minister Lieong announced the plan with a digital graphic to show us what Pongo 21 plus could be. That was during the National Day Rally 2007. And my first impress impression when I saw the video was wow. Bongo is a wow town. In less than 20 years, these plans became reality. Pongo is now a shining model of Singapore's heartland and a neighborhood that many young families will be proud to call home. I have tried to cover as much of the areas as possible over the last 3 days but it was only 3 days. So I check out a lot of places and I clock a lot of steps. I'm sure my health minister Angi Kang will be very happy. What is more important is that I made many new friends and I've also had a chance to meet residents from all walks of life, listen to their stories and these encounters allowed me to have a better understanding of their aspirations, their desires and also their concerns. So I want to take this opportunity to thank all of you for sharing your stories with me and over the last three days I have three observations I can share with you. First I found that Pongul is a town with many multi-generation families. It has a very strong and extensive family network. In the morning I went to the RRT station. I can see many Akong Aama bringing their grandchildren to school uh through the RT system. And in the evening when I walk along the parks, I see many of these Akong Aama again, not the same Akama of course, but different akamas bringing their ch grandchildren and chasing after their grandchildren when they run around in the playground. These are signs of a very rich and very loving and very cohesive community in Pongo. Second, there is a very strong sense of ownership and connection to Pongo. Many residents moved into Pongo when it was still a fledging town. Your you all of you played a very big part in shaping how Pongo developed over the years. For example, I walk along the linear park linear green. Janil mentioned it just now and I understand this was initially an unused walkway under the viuctuct and we piloted the first linear green. It was so successful that did the second one and did the third one with the inputs of many of residents like you. What what was more astonishing as I discovered more was that the waterways that runs around across our town was actually originally serves a functional purpose and that is to connect two reservoirs together. Our Sarangu reservoir as well as the Pongo reservoir. But we decided that just a water pipe is very boring. So we wanted to be creative to do something that's exciting and beautiful and that's how the waterway came about and it has now become a Pongo icon. And the third observation I found is that Pongo is very imaginative and creative in which it has been designed to allow residents to integrate, work, live and play together. Let me give you an example. If you just look across the horizon, you can see Corny Island, not very far away. You can take scenic walks along the Pongo waterway and go shopping at the water point, waterway point. Pongo Digital District, which is by the way under JTC and under Ministry of Trade and Industry. It's also shaping up to be Singapore's first smart district. It will bring many businesses to this area, many talent to this area and it will also create many jobs for our residents in Pongo. We have also received many feedback from families who enjoy the con convenience of Pongo 1, Singapore's biggest integrated child care and senior care hub. So these are just some of the very exciting and and convenient existing infrastructure and amenities that Pongo residents have told us that you are happy with. And when you're happy, we are happy because this means that we are doing what we are elected to do to serve you and to take care of you. But we are not perfect. we accept and going forward going when I go around Pongo the these few days I've heard some of the feedback from residents which I think we can try to improve upon today in terms of connectivity there are 30 31 bus services serving Pongo this includes two new bus services and nine improved existing bus services following the launch of the bus connectivity enhancement program in July died last year. The opening of the new Pongo Coast MRT has also cut traveling time to to the city center by 50 minutes for the residents that live around the area. And the good news is by June this year, the new Pongo Coast bus interchange will be up and running. By the third quarter, more twocar RT will also be added, which will help ease the congestion along the RRT network. In the future, the Cross Island line will bring even greater connectivity to Pongo. We promise to make Pongo a well-connected town. Second, related to connectivity, I also hear your feedback on the desire to have more covered lingways. And why so? And Pongo is a special place that requires additional covered lingways because Pongo is a very green town. You have a lot of green bushes, a lot of parks, a lot of gardens, and you have a waterway. which means we need to connect you up even more extensively. You will need a lot more covering ways along your pathways. And I will talk to my good friend, Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Lawrence Wong to see to see whether we can get more money to build some of this necessary infrastructure for our residents. But but but it needs a lot of work. We need to plan. We need to reook at our plan, original plan, work with town councils, work with the ministry of finance, work with M andd to see how we can reconfigure some of our original design to make uh Pongo a more connected town and also a more connect a connected and covered town. And finally finally finally I did had join a group of ladies to exercise in one of the parks. I managed to find some time to exercise with them again. Mongi Kong will be very happy and with exercise after exercise one of the lady told me Mr. Gan we really need to have more spaces for exercises like this because it's very good for all of us. We come together, we get together, we socialize together, and we stay healthy together. So indeed, we will want to find more spaces to allow our community to come together, to socialize, and to mix with one another. We do have very specific plans. The Pongo 21C will be up going undergoing upgrading next year. One has been working with the residents to get feedback on what to do with this upgrading. Residents can also look forward to the new Pongo Digital Park CC that will be built in the SIT compound by November 2026. It will be an exciting new hub for the SIT students as well as Pongo residents to meet each other and to socialize among themselves. These are exciting projects. But Pongo residents, none of this would have been possible without your support and your input. This town, this home is the joy and pride of Pongo residents. It has it has it has indeed been a great privilege for the PAP team to serve you for many years and to journey with you as we build Pongo for you and your families. We are a young and growing new town. There is much we have done together, but yet there's much more that we can work and do together with you and for you. Janu Shelling and Waning have among them almost 30 years of experience in running a town council. and I will bring another 24 years of experience. I hope you will give my team and I strong support so that we can continue to serve you and for you. This year's general election is also happening during one of the most turbulent times in our history. Many of you would have heard about the liberation day. This was announced just three weeks ago. But since then, the world has changed fundamentally. The US has imposed a 10% baseline tariff on most countries including Singapore and additional reciprocal tariffs that will be also be imposed but has been deferred by 90 days. Not cancelled but deferred. And what does all this mean to Singapore? Overall, there will be a slowdown in trade, investment, and growth. This means fewer opportunities for our businesses and for our workers. and in some instances they may also mean retrenchment in time to come. Singapore economy will be hit. We have already downgraded our economic growth forecast this year to between zero to 2%. And we cannot rule out the possibility of a recession. Some have said that the PAP's reaction to this US tariff announcement is overblown that we are sending a message of fear and there is no need to worry because Singapore has weathered bigger storms before. But but really are you sure? This is not just another storm. This is no ordinary storm. This is a tidal wave of change. There are long-term structural changes and implications for Singapore as a trading hub. We know that Singaporeans are worried. Businesses are feeling the impact of market uncertainty most sharply. MNC's are rethinking their investment plans. Even their presence here, some of them are thinking of relocating elsewhere. supply chains may be further reconfigured and with these uncertainties businesses have paused their investments and have also slowed down their hiring. So some of you are also seeing the effect of this on our employment. Many are wondering what does this mean for our job security whether we can continue to keep Singaporeans in good stable jobs even as businesses re-evaluate. But as Prime Minister Lawrence Wong has said, there is no need to fear. There is no need to fear. And this is why we roll out this is why we roll out a comprehensive budget this year to help Singaporeans cope with the uncertainties ahead of you. workers can tap on enhanced employment and training resources like skills future job seeker support scheme which was just uh uh implemented recently and the career conversion program. We may not be able to save every job but we intend to protect every worker. We will uplift you. We will help you bounce back stronger than before. And Prime Minister Lawrence Wong promise we'll do more if necessary. The PAP has your back. The PAP government is clear on what we need to do. It may be election seasons, but the work of governing Singapore continues. The Singapore Economic Resilience Task Force, which I chair, is hard at work and trying to look into what we need to do to tackle the crisis ahead of us. We have also been negotiating with the US on tariffs. I'm personally leading this task in the talks with my counterparts in the US. I had very good discussions with my US counterparts, US Trade Representative Ambassador Grier and US Secretary of Commerce Howard Lutnik. They are willing to enter into talks with us because of the longstanding partnership the PAP government has with the US administration as well as the US leaders. They know us and they trust us. And this mutual trust is most critical in times of crisis for us to be able to come together to talk with one another and to negotiate. And it is on the basis of this trust, the US is prepared to explore a practical way forward to facilitate Singapore's critical exports to the US. It is not a done deal, but it is a good start. There's still a lot more to do, and we intend to pursue this rigorously to create more opportunities for Singapore and Singaporeans, but negotiations are confidential. So, I will share with you more details in time to come. Internally, I know during our my walkabouts, there have many residents have shared with me their concerns about food costs. We know that being able to obtain a simple, nutritious and affordable meal is important to everyone and that is why our Pongo advisers have worked with the Copidium Group to open the Pongo Coast Hawker Center and this will be ready by July 2025. But the work doesn't stop here in Pongo Shaw. We are progressively also rolling out vending hubs providing cooked food, hot cooked food. And we could also we will also be exploring a similar model for the rest of Pongo GRC so that residents can look forward to a variety of local favorites favorites as well as hala meal options at a press of a button. We are also in talks with companies like Changan and Kofu to offer more valuable me more value meals across the entire Bongo district. So no matter where you are, where you live in the Pongo GRC, you will have more convenient, more affordable, and most importantly, tasty meals right at your doorstep. There are also many local comm community commun community initiatives to reach out to help and support our residents to ensure that we will attend to your needs and address your financial worries and so that you don't have to worry because we worry for you. Let me say a few words in Mandarin. for woman. for anyway. Your woman Let me conclude in English. Bongo today is a combination of aspirations for the future, imagination of what is possible and cooperate collaboration with a community to realize our dreams. Janil, Shelling and Waning have formed deep emotional ties with all of you and worked very hard over the years to make Pongo a beautiful and vibrant city to work, live and play. And I'm now proud to be a new member of this team. My team and I have many more ideas to share with you and to implement together with you. We hope to earn your trust, your confidence so that we can continue to serve you and to realize our dreams together. When we stand united, we can overcome all challenges and secure a better future for Pongo, for Singapore, and for Singaporeans. Vote PB. Thank you. Thank you DPM. Can we have all the candidates and speakers to the front of the stage? Are you ready? Majula Singapura. Majula Singapura. Majula Pabul. Majula Singapura Singapa Singapura. Yeah. Heat. Thank you everyone. We have come to the end of the rally. Thank you for coming to Pongo GRC rally and remember vote for BAP. Thank you so much and good night. All right. There you go. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. I love you. I love you. I love you. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat.