Pongo town. Our town is warm, community is vibrant and the facilities are great and I am even more assured to know that our town is being taken care by people's session party town council led by DPM gun. foreign. forg. Now let's welcome our candidates for Bongo GIC. Let me introduce to you the candidates for tonight. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Gang Kimyong. Next we have senior minister of state. Next up we have minister of state missing. Last but not least, miss your one leg. Joining us tonight, we have guest speaker Minister Injani Raja, Senior Minister of State, Mr. Zaki Moab. Thank you very much. Hey sir and ma'am, please take a seat. May I also invite the first speaker of tonight? Oh, look who is joining us tonight. Senior Mr. G. Thank you sir. Thank you ma'ams. May I invite our first speaker of the night Dr. Janu Perry to take the stage Dr. Janu. Good evening everybody and a happy May day and welcome to all our brothers and sisters from the NTU and the labor movement. Welcome to our rally. We've had a hard-fought campaign and over that time the last few days we've met many residents. Many of them coming to meet with us, share their stories, take photos, but also many of them with comments and messages that we listened very closely to that we took to heart. One of the uh things that I saw was a queue forming for residents to take pictures with DPM gun. As some of our Pongo residents, some of our Pongo residents deeply wanted to share things with him but bit busy sometimes having to return home for child care, sometimes going for work. Q for me instead passed me a message. can you please give this to DPM gun? And one of those things that they wanted DPM gun to know about was please take care of yourself and take care of us here in Pongal. The residents the residents also commented on our campaign. Our residents in Pongal, our Pongal voters are discerning. They read the material. They read what's online. They see how the candidates behave, what we say, what we don't say. And residents that I met commented that our campaign in a way was quite remarkable. I remember in particular at the MRT station, some of you will know exit A and exit C. Every morning we're there 6:30 until late at night. Sometimes we see the residents going to work, sometimes coming home. Sometimes we also see our opponents, our political opponents also there doing what we are doing, campaigning, passing out leaflets, trying to engage residents, trying to persuade, please vote for us. And several residents mentioned how polite we all were. We're standing next to each other. They see us occasionally shaking hands, smiling at each other. Our politics in Singapore up until now has been peaceful, has been productive, has been polite. Our residents noticed this and some one even said to me, "Look, I don't know any other country where you'll see such peaceful coexistence. What you say, yes, but how you behave matters even more." And indeed, we try very hard to make sure that we're all on our best behavior. One of the things the residents have mentioned to me is that they have noticed that the PAP Pongal team, we have not engaged in negative campaigning. We're not going to make personal attacks. We haven't done. We're not going to be rude. We're not going to make jokes at the expense of other people. But if you're not going to do that, if you're not going to engage in negative campaigning, not going to make jokes, well then you have to have real plans. And we have real plans for Pongal for the future for 5 years and beyond. Let me tell you about our real plans. At the last rally, I explained to you how we think about these plans, how we develop them, all the things that we have done for the last few years. Let me tell you about what's coming in the future. You know that we have plans to improve our transport. We have the twocar LRT uh cabins coming. The services will improve. We have a new bus interchange that's opening up at Pongal Coast MRT as part of the Pongal Digital District. That bus interchange will open in June and it will have new bus services. New bus services that will serve our residents, including those in the Northshore District. Our old bus interchange. Our residents know that we're having a new bus interchange. Many of them very discerning. They say, "I have lived so close to the old bus interchange. It's very handy. What's going to happen to it?" Our old bus interchange will remain in operation. We are not closing it down. Pongal will have two bus interchanges and the old bus interchange will remain in operation and in the long term will be commit converted to a permanent interchange linking with two MRT lines. It's the Northeast line now and the new Cross Island Line. Our roads, our roads are being dug up for these MRT lines. Residents ask, "What's going to happen?" The road swings north. The road swings south. Eventually, all the roads will go back to its natural and original plan. Nice, neat. But we will extend our road network across the water from Pongal Central a westward extension and the bridge connecting to Celita link later this year and that will reduce traffic congestion. Real plans, real plans to make life better. The new sports stadium, I spoke about it in the last rally. You can see it's all coming up. It's a large It's a large and complicated building. It'll have 5,000 seat stadium, five swimming pools, 20 badminton courts, gyms, fitness studio, water sports center, many, many other things. The work is on track and it will open in early 2026. But we have to work to make it happen. We have to keep the project on track. We have to make sure that all of these things are working well and eventually deliver for our residents. We also hear from residents about the concerns around jobs. My colleague, Miss Yoan Ling, will speak about that. But from the labor movement, the young people that we've been speaking to are also concerned about their parents and their grandparents. Pongul is a large town. many multigenerational families. You've seen us open active aging centers. St. Luke's on the Northshore area, what we do at Juan Pongo, the nursing homes. The active aging centers represents a shift in our approach in our planning for our elderly, our seniors. Partnering with community organizations, having the seniors find fulfillment and social connectedness in the community. The AAC's give them board games, fitness exercises, talks, activities, calligraphy, crochet. Well, actually the most important thing that they do reduce social isolation, build friendships, and reduce loneliness. And I know that young people are concerned about this when they see what their parents are living through. And so, you know, we've already got several centers here in Pongol. Just this week during the campaign, we launched another one at Pongal 21CC. A joint effort between Alqin and Sparkle Care PCF as an active aging center to care for our seniors. We'll have another AAC in Pongal, one of our HDB estates by the end of the year. This is what we are doing. identifying the needs of our residents, finding the solutions, bringing our partners together and lobbying government. That's how we got the AAC's here by lobbying and making the case that this is what we need here in Pongo. And occasionally we have to take action ourselves directly, senior citizens corners within the estates. These are opportunities for community leaders to then build programs to reach out, reduce loneliness, engage with our seniors. We already have nine. We'll be building many more over the years to come. Needs of the residents, ideas about how to solve the problems, plans and implementations. This is what we do. We understand the needs by walking the ground, by meeting and listening to our residents, having a deep understanding of their concerns. Ideas are shared from the ground, but also from our government agency officers. But but when it comes to making plans, we must have a special responsibility for this. Balancing all the needs, incorporating all the ideas, the competing ideas. This is a responsibility we can't ignore. We have to embrace making plans as part of our duty. And so we have plans that are clear and are going to deliver for our residents of Pongol. We have many plans for Pongal developed because we understand our families and residents here because we have a shared aspiration for a better town and we are determined to bring those plans alive and make Pongal better for you with your support. Vote PAP for Pongal. Thank you. Majula PAP Majula Singapura Janu for making a better home in Pongo for all of us. Next up, let me invite Miss Y. One leg, Hongo residents, union sisters and brothers, friends and supporters of the PAP. Good evening. Today is a very special day. Not only because it's the last day of campaigning for the Singapore GE205, but is also a very significant day for all workers and my sisters and brothers from the labor movement, many who are Pongo residents. Happy Mayday, everyone. We rallied together earlier this morning at our Mayday rally and are now again rallying together here this evening at our PAP national rally at Pongo JRC. Brothers and sisters, comrades, in solidarity for Bongo Town, as we countdown to the final hours and minutes of a week and a half of heart, heart heartfelt campaigning, I think back on the many moments which made my heart tender and my spirit sing. From the many volunteers, activists, unionists who came out in full force to support our team PAP Pongo to our residents who brave the sun and the rain to cheer us on. From the many messages of encouragement and frank feedback to the high fives and hugs. Pongo, you had me at hello and you have my heart five years in. P.S. I love you. My dear Pongo residents, in the many moments I had with you, one was particularly thoughtprovoking, and it was a conversation I had at Waterway Point with a young couple, one of them, a firsttime voter. They asked me with a steely gaze and a steady voice, why should we vote for the PAP? This is such a simple question, but it encapsulates, doesn't it, the reason why we are all here today. I thought about the aspirations and challenges our Pongo residents had entrusted me with over the years and the very reasons why I continue to fight for this seat to serve our Pongo residents. I told our young couple that casting a good impactful vote needs both a combination of rational thought and intuitive gut feel. And for me, it is important to choose representatives who are kind with their hearts in the right places, who are hardworking and on the ground, and who can rally partnerships and resources to resolve issues and bring happiness and progress to our community. My Bongo residents know this. Every time I walk through our neighborhoods, whether at the waterway, at our coffee shops, or during our community events, I'm reminded of why Pongo has a very special place in my heart. Every conversation we've shared has stayed with me. Your hopes, your concerns, your dreams for your children, these are not just passing stories. They drive me to work harder every day to dream of exciting new projects for our community and to bring in partners and supporters to make our lives energized and better. Earlier this morning, I was at the Mayday rally. We reaffirmed our commitment to every worker in Singapore and to each and every one of you here in Pongo. I am talking about the dignity of every worker in Pongul, the security of every family in Pongul. Jobs are not just a number to me. They are your livelihoods, your children's future, the future of every Pongo child. In my walkabouts, I have met with many of our Pongo youths and they are really awesome. Our youths have many aspirations in life and have plenty to look forward to. Cheryl is a youth leader who's just 20, but has been volunteering since she was 9 years old. Chloe and Chris have very big hearts and both are gearing for a career in healthcare to look after our senior loved ones and children. Our Pongo youths have a bright future and they are the young sprouts who will grow to be tall oak trees to shelter our community and nation in time to come. It is important that we continue to provide them with opportunities for growth, especially with their career options even with the global looming uncertainties. In Pongo Town, we believe that career success isn't just about finding opportunities. It's about creating them together with our partners and other stakeholders. Since 2020, our Pongal team has brought in NTU's E2I as a partner for employment and employability. And we are committed to ensuring every resident, regardless of age or background, has access to meaningful career support right where they live. In 2024, our outreach efforts have engaged more than 800 Pongo residents who took the initiative to explore new career paths through this partnership. And I'm very happy to share that 180 of our Pongo residents were successfully placed through this partnership with the E2I and the NTU. This momentum has led to the creation of our town's flagship career marketplace in March 2025 where over a thousand a thousand jobs vacancy across various industries were open to our Pongo residents and more importantly 10% of these jobs were made specifically for fresh graduates and this is a powerful signal that our employer ers are ready to invest in our young Pongo talent. Beyond placements, Pongo's focus remains on building career resilience and future readiness, ensuring that all our residents are equipped not just for today's opportunities, but for tomorrow's challenges. A key enabler of this effort has been the opening of our one Pongal Service SG center in 2024 and this strengthens our career support within our township. I am very pleased to share that going forward we will partner with the E2I to launch a series of workshops based in Pongo focused on in demand skills and emerging career areas including the AI and the digital economy and this will help our residents gain confidence to navigate our industry shifts with clarity. In addition to keep up with the very popular momentum of the po the Pongo career marketplace, we will be expanding the frequency of this program from twice a year to every two months. One of the key concerns raised by residents in Pongo is the need for meaningful opportunities for mid-career professionals who are looking for a change in careers. In response, our Pongo team has courted yet another partner to support our community and that is the Singapore Institute of Technology on a first ever program in lifestyle entrepreneurship. With this four months program under the belt, Pongo residents will be equipped to start their micro businesses as freelance writers, private home chefs, online marketeteers, and the exciting list goes on. And and as an exciting and aged Pongo surprise, this will also come with seed funding help from the Pongo Shaw Merchants Association. This initiative reflects our ongoing commitment to empower our residents with practical future ready opportunities for self reinvention. Pongo is also a town with young families and our residents are faced with stresses from caring for their children, their senior loved ones and the financial pressures while raising a family. The moms I speak with often tell me that they would love to return to work, but find it difficult given their need to wrap their work around their caregiving duties. As such, it is important that we continue to normalize FWAS in the workplace. And I give you my word, I will continue to advocate for this in parliament. And we will also need to create local in community jobs. To this I am pleased to share that we will now extend our NTU see you back at work program which helps our caregivers and moms to return to work with flexible work options to also include micro jobs in Pongul neighborhood. This will include babysitting, healthcare assistance, tuition, and surveyors. This will also be in partnership with our Pongo flagship local program, Project Success. My dear residents, the choice before us is clear. Do we want to continue building on these strong foundations? Do we want to ensure that every Pongo resident has access to good jobs and meaningful careers? Do you want a team that doesn't just talk about helping workers, but has a proven track record of delivering results? If your answer is yes, then I ask for your support. Vote for a team that understands that behind every job is a family, behind every paycheck is dignity, and behind every skills upgrade is a hope for a better tomorrow. Vote for a positive force. Vote for a future that we can build together. Vote for the PIP. Thank you. Thank you, Mingling. The choice is clear. Vote for PB. Next up, may I invite Mr. Zaki Muhammad to take the stage. A very good evening Pungala. Please allow me to begin my speech in Malay, our national language. Islam. for size to Jew. Bread and butter. Consistent. for Parliament Parliament Parliament. Parliament questions parliament pap issue to Palestine Parliament. We stand for action. Gaza Parliament. That's because people we action and we are people's action party. It's not just the sensitive issues, but also the issues that matter at heart. Modern Harat. Graduate University five times the graduates today compared to a decade ago. ago sector PM statistic. This is not just about statistics. Parliament, PP instant program. Islam work. America Singapore. Islam Singapura social progressive Islam complex Islam Young inclusive. Mash Islam young committed. Master Dan Masanita. Good evening friends from Pungal and fellow Singaporeans. I gave it some thought on how best to begin this speech without mentioning task force men. It was tough. I tell you it was tough. I see your banners and posters here. But let's be honest, that's exactly what DPM Gun Kimyong is. He undertakes the task and he delivers. That's him. That's the man I know for the last 20 years. That's how dependable he was. You don't need to chase him. You didn't need to remind him. You just needed to tell me once, tell him once. And even for us MPs, we arroed our anchor minister quite a bit and he got things done. He makes the effort to go the extra mile. He look for solutions and even when there are policy constraints, he'd find a way. But more than that, he cared. Not in the showy headlining gra headline grabbing way, but in the quiet, steady way that really matters. Many of you will remember how he stepped up during COVID 19. He stepped up way before WP did. He stepped up. But the difference is that he is calm. He is steady. He is kind. He is reassuring. He didn't seek the spotlight, but he anchored the whole effort guiding two younger ministers through one of the toughest moments in our history. One of them is now a prime minister who has since proven his metal on leading Singapore. The other minister on Kang is now firmly leading the ministry of health and that's leadership not just about managing crisis but he also brings out the best in others that is leadership my friends DPM Khan also brings something we talk about a lot diversity in government leadership he came from the private sector a former CEO at net steel now this diverse experience matters I've seen name in cabinet the clarity in which he understands business the economy and investors concerns. He played a key role in key projects like the Singapore Johz making sure that they are not just big announcements but that they deliver real benefits, business opportunities and progress for Singapore. But let me share something many may not know. DPM Gan is deeply respected within the Christian community. Yet yet in all the years I worked with him, he's never worn his faith on his sleeve in politics. That's the difference. He never imposed his belief on others. Instead, he's shown a deep commitment to all communities. He's quietly raised funds for causes in the Malay and Indian communities. He supported minority initiatives. Never for out of belief in uniting people in cohesion and in what and in what it means to be one people. And that's why I believe with full conviction that DPM gun will serve Pungal with the same heart, with that same discipline, with the same desire to do what's right and not what easy or what's popular. So if you're wondering who can tackle the big task ahead, rising cost, job security, community growth, this is your man. If you want a steady hand to guide this new team and this new GRC, then I say with deep sincerity, support DPM Gim Young. I've I've called him Chief as a nickname for 20 years. If I had to go into any battle in stormy weather or clear skies, I'd follow the chief without hesitation because I know DPM guard will always put Singapore and Singaporeans first. So I thank you everyone here, friends in Pungal, Majula P, Majula Singapura. because we stand for action. Next, allow me to invite our old friend, old friend of Singapore, old friend of PP, Mr. Limu Si. Dear residents of uh Hongo, my dear brother and sisters from the labor movement, my fellow Singaporean, good evening. Yeah. Funkin food. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Li, may you Oh, Singapore. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! foreign. Yeah. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. piming. Yeah. So it's always in woman Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Poland. Yeah. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Anyway, for example. for example. foreign. Yeah. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! foreign. Yeah. Singapore. So, So Okay. change. My dear residents, my dear fellow Singaporeans, earlier in my mentoring speech, I touched on the importance of attracting foreign direct investment because without foreign direct investment, Singapore would not have access to the leading edge technology to the best market in the world. So all over the years, we've been working very hard to bring the best company to bring the best project into Singapore. So far we have succeeded but we must understand why did we succeed after all good projects not just Singapore all over the world every country wants to the same thing. So when I was a EDB, we talk a lot to our uh investor. We ask them now what are you looking for? And when they come to Singapore, we ask them why do you decide on Singapore? Because we think it's important to understand this so that we can keep repeating our success. So once a company wanted to put a very big investment about $500 million US somewhere in the world. Finally they decided on Singapore. So our political leader asked the chairman of this company can you please tell me how did you come to decide on Singapore? And the gentleman say well my projects I classify them as small, medium and large. Small project oh anywhere is fine. There must be at least 20 30 uh countries or locations in the world. I can put them. It doesn't matter where after a small project mediumsiz project maybe only 10 or maybe seven but never more than 10 but for a important project a project that will affect their long-term survival of the company not more than five and our leader asked not more than five then why is that Singapore as a small country why are we one of the five and in fact we were the number one of the five and the chairman to our leaders. They said I tell you very frankly first we asked can this location does he have the capability to do the work? He said for Singapore answer is yes but many country all the five location got to take. Second can Singapore does Singapore have the capacity the land the water the people power and so on to enable to grow and to expand. He said Singapore thick. Yes. But to be frank, all the other four also got a thick. Then finally come to the third T. He said this investment will take my company at least 10 years to reach full potential. At least 15 years to recover our investment. At least 20 years for us to make money. So in other words, the third thing we're looking for is whether this location has got policy stability. Policy stability has got political stability because anywhere they went whenever they change of government or they come become weaker under pressure in the parliament they start to change policy all right so that affect their long-term investment and you told a pro leader you say Singapore of the five come to the third you rank number one so tonight I want to appeal to and to my fellow Singaporeans all over this general election is not just about PAP versus workers party and so on. nine days will be over will be over but at the end of the night day when the result is out do we know our prime minister Lawrence Wong do we know what kind of mandate will he get from Singaporean will it be a strong mandate or will it be a weak mandate do we know who will be in his cabinet will Gangyong be there will many of our capable minister will they be in there or prime minister may have to form a new cabinet without some of his key left hand right hand and end up having no hand I'm concerned because if our 4G leader doesn't receive a strong mandate of Singapore the chairman that I talk about of this global company in future he and other chairman of the were when they decide to place their most important investment. First T okay, second T okay came to the third T political stability, policy stability. What will happen? It may become our previous stick in the past may become a question mark and when it become a question mark what will happen to Singaporean? What will happen to our job? What happened to our future and so on. So brothers and sisters, FVG is important, but this one is especially especially important. It will determine our future, the future of our children, the future of grandchildren for the next 10, 15 years, 10, 20 years and beyond. It will determine whether Singapore will have a strong 4G leadership and at the same time whether Singapore will be able to nurture a strong 5G leadership. So all of us are in the same boat and I appeal to you that tomorrow cooling day sit back relax and think through what is at stake and hopefully on the third of May hopefully enough of us more of us the more the better will decide to make the right choice so that we can march forward together. Mazula Singapura. Next up, please join me to give the warmest warmest welcome to Minister Ini Raja. Good evening, Pongo. I am here this evening for the same reason you are, which is to support our PAP team. Now, previously at the Fitton rally, I had said that opposition rallies generate more heat than light. Tonight is time to shed some light. Recently, WP, the Workers Party, has been making a big hoo-ha about how in parliament once they voted in favor of a constitutional amendment to make up the numbers. You know, for that constitutional amendment, it was straightforward. There was no reason for them not to have voted against it. It was not controversial and they had every reason to vote in favor of it. But but there is another amendment. There's another amendment that they didn't tell you about and I want to tell you about that today. These are or these two amendments were the repeal of section 377A and the constitutional amendment to introduce a new article 156 to protect the definition of marriage as a union between man and woman against legal challenge. Now let me just give you a bit of background on this so that you understand the issue and why it's important. For section 377A, there was a time that we did not repeal it, but many requests were made and eventually it was decided that now enough people have felt that the acts which under that section should not be a crime. Whether religiously, morally, you you agree with them is a different thing, but they need not be a crime. But the other more significant thing was this. There was a risk that the court would strike down 377A in the future. And there was a then recent court of appeal judgment which hinted that in the event of a future constitutional challenge, section 377A could be struck down. Now, if that were to happen, it would open up the definition of marriage as a union between man and woman to challenge, which could also have a knock-on effect on our social policies. So, the government moved to do two things. one, to repeal section 377A, but two, to make a constitutional amendment to introduce a new article to protect the current definition of marriage as a union between man and woman against a legal challenge. But we also left open the door to allow future governments to amend the definition of marriage by simple majority so as not to unduly restrict or prevent future generations and a future government from deciding this issue. Now, when it came to voting, the PAP did not lift the whip and as a result, the repeal and the amendments to the constitution were carried. The Workers Party on the other hand made a big deal of the fact that they were lifting their whip and they voted their voting was all over the place. On section 377A repeal, five supported, two opposed, one was absent, but he was he said he was ill. Then on the constitutional amendment, six supported, two abstained, and they had one that was absent. Now you need to understand the impact of this if the PAP had taken the same approach because under the WP approach it was anybody can vote as they like. There was no leadership, there was no party position. It was a political calculation to be all things to all people. They certainly had many alternative voices but no party position and they had the luxury of voting this way only because the PAP had not lifted the whip and we carried the motions. Now, if the PAP had taken a similar approach and we had lifted the whip and if the repeal and or the amendments were not carried, this is what would have happened or could have happened. Section 377A could have been struck down and the current definition of marriage as a union between a man and a woman would have been at risk, open to legal challenge with the possibility that it could be struck down. It would have led to polarization and a clash between the different groups because this was an issue on which people have strong feelings and strong views. Some from a moral viewpoint, some from a religious viewpoint, whatever it is, but they had very strong views. And if we had not been able to carry these motions, you would have had that polarization. That would have been an adversarial process and a social issue which should be decided by the people and parliament would have ended up being decided by the courts instead and that would have been very very stressful and put a lot of strains on our society. The PAP's approach kept things in balance. It achieved a new equilibrium and it took into account the views from both sides. It provided leadership but most of all it took courage. It took courage because there was a lot of pressure at that time from many sides but we had to steer that course and it would have been so easy to go the WP route but we did not because we believe in preserving our society in having unity taking into account everybody's considerations but trying to create that space where we can all live together and have some accommodation. So I would ask those to whom these issues matter to reflect on this. When it came to the crunch on a delicate and potentially very contentious matter, WP bailed. Political leadership requires courage, not expedience. And the PAP is a government that governs on principle, not expedience. Now my second point, my second point. The Workers Party started their campaign on a narrative that more alternative voices in parliament were needed. It was presented as WP is needed as an it's an eitheror situation. In other words, if you vote opposition, you can have alternative voices. If you don't vote opposition, there will be no alternative voices. So during the Fitton rally, I pointed out that if it was a matter of having opposition alternative voices, that is already guaranteed under the constitution under the NMCP the the NCMP scheme, the non-constituency MP scheme. When asked by the media about this, Mr. Pritcham Singh said and I quote, "Only elected opposition MPs can pressure and push the government." Let's look, let's be very clear. The NCMPs have no voters, have no residents that they can solicit feedback from. They don't have an office under a block in the constituency where they have worked. Huh. Well, first thing you notice how the argument shifted. At first, it was you need them because you need an alternative voice. When it was pointed out that the alternative voice is guaranteed, they then move the argument to only elected MPs can pressure and push the government. But wow, if that is the case, then I wonder what NCMP's Mr. Leong Man and Miss Hazel Pua have been doing in parliament these five years. They are both NCMPs. PSP says they have been very active in parliament. But according to Mr. saying they being NCMPs if you take his argument to its logical conclusion they have no voters and no residents to solicit feedback from. So I wonder how they have been raising all the things they say is based on ground feedback and and they don't have an office under a block in the constituency where they're active. I didn't know that you actually need an office under a block in a constituency in order to raise feedback. How did they manage to raise questions in parliament and bring motions in parliament? I'm sure it must be disheartening for PSP to learn that all their efforts over these past five years do not qualify as pressuring and and pushing the government. And NCMPs, by the way, are also elected. It's just that they are elected by the minority of votes. And of course, you have to wonder why. If what Mr. Singh says is correct, why is it that the Workers Party was only too happy to accept NCMP positions before they became elected constituency MPs? Miss Sylvia Lim, NCMP in 2006, Mr. Yi Jen Jong, Mr. Gerald Gang, all NCMPs, they had no residents and no voters then. I wonder how they managed to raise issues. And I'm and I'm surprised to learn that all the time that they were NCMPs, they were not pushing or pressuring government and only their parliamentary colleagues with constituency seats were. So I ask you Pongo, I ask you that when workers party makes these smooth statements, examine them. Examine them because when you probe deeper, when you look at what they say, you may find that they don't hold up. And tomorrow, cooling off day, take that time. I'm not saying to you how you should vote, but I'm saying look at what they say very carefully because it they don't always hold up to scrutiny. Now the last point, the last point I want to make and I will be quick on this but it is an important point. Gan Kim Yong came I became MP the same year as Gan Kim Yong in 2001. So he's my batchmate and I know him well. I have been very dismayed by the personal attacks made on him by another party and I just want to say this Mr. Gan Kimyong was the health minister at the height of COVID. At that time in our darkest hour of the pandemic, he was the one who was there with a steady hand steering mo and steering the country through all the medical aspects of it. And please don't get me wrong because I know that there were many other people involved in helping to battle the pandemic. But unlike some others, Mr. Gimyong doesn't claim credit for everything. With all that burden on his shoulders at that time, he was the one who in cabinet explained quietly and carefully the things that needed to be done. The first time he used the term social distancing, I had no idea what that meant. And he explained it, the consequences of it, what we would have to do. Under him, our ministry of health was able to secure vaccines early before many other countries were able to. Under his guidance, we made sure we had protective equipment for our medical workers. And many of you, many of you would have had vaccines. You would have had your parents, your grandparents who needed vaccines, who needed help and many of you had appeals which you sent to your MPs and the difficult appeals we sent to him and he helped. So that is why I find it necessary to be here today to support him. He's not flashy. He doesn't give you smooth words. He's not glib. He doesn't say all sorts of things that sound good and don't mean a lot. But he gets things done. So, Pongo, Pongo, Pongo, I'm going to ask you, who is the task force man? Who is the man who should be leading BAP Pong GRC? Who should be the team that is for the Pongo GRC? It is our team PA. So when Saturday comes, you know who to vote for. Majula PAP Madula Singapura Ministry for the inspiring speech for PIP for Pango. Next up, I need your full attention. I need your full attention because our special guest of honor, Prime Minister Lawrence W. Welcome, welcome Prime Minister Lawrence Wong to Pongo GSA. Thank you, Prime Minister Bongo. Are you ready? Are you ready? PP God. Residents and friends of Pongo. Oh, it's me again. Nine days ago. Nine days ago, my coming to Pongo took many by surprise. When Prime Minister approached me with this task, I readily accepted the challenge. Why? Why? because I fully supported his intentions to have someone senior to take senior Minister Tio's place when he retires so that we can continue to take into account the voices of the people of Bangalore. Over the last nine days, I've seen for myself how amazing Pongo is. Pongo is now one of the most sought after residential areas. You have one of the most enviable networks of green spaces and parks where families can gather and play. Corny Island, just a stone throw away. Hongo Waterway Park has become a national icon with amenities such as the picnic areas, gardens, and waterways winding through the HTB estates. Nowhere else in Singapore can proud homeowners enjoy this kind of waterfront living. The Pongo Digital District, the PDD, has created over 28,000 jobs and continues to be a test bed for new and emerging technologies. It is where students, businesses, and the community come together to learn to work, live, and play. And this all this did not happen by accident. It was the product of 15 to 20 years of hard work by the PAP government. This this was the vision of two prime ministers and many ministers of national development that work together to create this vision for Pongo. In my walkabouts over the last few days, I've also witnessed many good local initiatives benefiting our community. We expanded child care and infant care places across a Pongo. More than 14 child care centers have opened since 2020, adding more than 3,000 infant and child care places. and we are looking forward to seven more to be open. Youth and seniors have also benefited from many initiatives started by one link like the positivity pizza movement and the three hell talks at our coffee shops. Resident told me they love the amenities at one Pongo which Janil oversees. You also enjoy the many recreational spaces like the linear parks and rooftop gardens with more to come. And you have the biggest public library in the whole of Singapore. residents of Pongo. I'm deeply honored to be part of this team that has done so much for Pongo over the years and I hope this good work will not goes to waste. But there is certain more that we can do together to make Pongo an even better place to work, live and play. and I have some ideas where we can start. I spoke about some areas that we will continue to improve during my earlier rally speech and over the past week I've met many more of you to hear your feedback. First on Northshore, this is the newest estate in the Pongo town. Residents raise concerns about estate management and cleanliness and bus connectivity as well as BTO related issues. We take estate management very seriously and if elected we will work hard to resolve these issues. That is our promise. I have announced earlier that if we are given the chance to continue serving here, Shelling will chair the new Pongol Town Council to oversee this effort. And you you can look at Shering's record in managing Pongo West. I'm confident I'm confident that she will be an effective and excellent chairman for the town council. As a start, as a start, Shiring told me that he has already followed up with the passer town council chairman to set up a committee for the handover from the Paris Bongo town council. This is necessary. This is necessary because Bongo and Pareries are now two different GRC's. This will allow us to hit the ground running after the election. Of course, our town council will not just look after Northshore but the whole of Pongul. One area. One area that we will prioritize is to build more covered lingways in Pongo. Residents have consistently shared with me that they would like to see a more comprehensive network of covered linguays so that it is more convenient for Pongo residents to commute from one point to another, especially during bad weather. One one particular request one particular request is to provide shelter linguay for our young students such as at the Northshore Primary School which I visited just a few days ago. I assure you that this is something we will focus on. We will work with the new town council and relevant agencies to draw up a comprehensive plan for our connectivity as well as our covered linguay so that we can help you to be as connected as possible while protecting you from the weather. We will also ramp up our public transport. We are making good progress with a new Pongo Coast MRT station and six bus routes which we recently introduced and enhanced. In the next few months, we will open the new Pongo Coast bus interchange and launch twocar RTS to reduce congestion. We are developing the Cross Island line to better connect residents to hubs like Jurong and Changi. Pongo is still growing and as Pongo continues to develop, we will study how to serve our town better with improved amenities, connectivity, and safety. Some of you also worry about the frequent turnover of food stores, especially in the Northshore Plaza, and share that you would like to see more retail and FnB outlets and options in your neighborhood. The upcoming Pongo Coast Hawker Center opening in July will provide more options for you. We also have community initiatives such as the halfp price grocery shopping and monthly meal voucher for the lower income families. We have also provided support for Singaporeans in general such as the CDC vouchers and the SG60 vouchers. Singaporeans can receive $800 in CDC vouchers for FY2025 and either $600 or $800 in SG60 vouchers. A family of four with two elderly age above 60 and two younger adults adult children will receive 3,600 of CDC and SG60 vouchers in total. In Chukang, I work with community partners to launch vending machines across HD HDB blocks selling $3 pre-cooked meals, prepacked meals, and we will explore this solution here in time to come. These are just some of the feedback I received over the past nine days. I will continue to engage you on the issues that matters to you. But Pongo is not just about the hardware. It is also about the hardware, the people and the spirit. I used to hold events in parks and gardens for community bonding. For instance, we would have music. We would have performances to showcase our local buskers. And we also have farmers markets to support our local farmers. Pongo has much more community spaces that can be used. You have parks and greens and gardens. And we will explore how we can rekindle the Pongo Kong spirit. As as part of our Kong spirit, we must also remember those around us who are more needy and needs more help. A few days ago, I visited the lighthouse. This is a space dedicated to supporting the personal growth and mental well-being of our youths and young adults. Shilling and her community leaders have built this up from scratch. Both the children and volunteers shared with me how much they enjoy the programs and activities there. I also visited a fresh produce distribution program. Volunteers have been hard at work ensuring that a good quality groceries is a produce is available to our residents at no cost. About 400 families benefited from this initiative every month. At the end of the day, I believe the best way to help those in need is to secure secure for them good jobs. Waning has been actively championing workers issues in parliament and bringing job fairs to Pongo residents. Nationally, we are also doing all we can to help Singaporeans. As Minister of Trade and Industry for the past four years, I'm driving the efforts to grow our economy, help our businesses, and provide better jobs for Singaporeans. It has not been easy surviving the coid9 pandemic weathering a period of high inflation and global supply chain disruptions and now the most recent US tariffs. We have set up the Singapore Economic Resilience Task Force to help our businesses adjust and adapt quickly and prepare our workers for jobs of the future. We will double down on reskilling and upskilling initiatives and give the vulnerable more support to bounce back quickly. We want to do more to support our Pongo families. Some of you worry because you have elderly parents to take care of. This is a concern that many Singaporeans have, especially among our younger families. We know this and you are not alone. We will work with you and we want to strengthen more support for our caregivers. This may take some time to implement, but if elected, I promise to further explore how we can give our seniors and caregivers greater support and greater peace of mind. Let me let me end on a personal note. I know some have been whispering on the ground, Gimyong already 66 and his DPM and task force man. He has to look after our economy and trade. So where got time for Pongo residents? Let me say this. I've been in politics for almost 25 years now. Since I started in 2001, my first priority has always been my residence. I can only be a minister if I am an MP. So being your MP is my first priority. Yes, I'm task force man. I have many tasks but none more important than the task of looking after you. I am task force man for Bongo. I hope I hope you will give me and my team an opportunity to serve you for another 5 years. We will work as a team to take care of Pongo and every one of you. Let me say a few words in Mandarin. Fore speech. So Oh, was she Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Task Force men. What you goch? foreign. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! for she go for the go with the children. Gway. Speech. Speech. nursing. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Friends and residents in Bongo, in two days time, you will cast your vote to decide who should serve you and who you want to represent you in parliament and in government. The stakes are high. The stakes are high because this GE is about you. Your welfare, your job, your family, your future. You will have to decide who can best take Singapore forward. Who will steer Singapore through these uncharted waters ahead of us? Who can represent Singapore on international stage and fly our flag high? Who do you trust to take care of you and your loved ones? I may be new to this town, but I'm no stranger to crisis. I'm no stranger to service. And now I am no stranger to you. I'm here in Pongo and I'm here to stay. I'm here to carry on and build on the good work of SM Kio and the current Pongo team. They have done what they have done for you. With your vote and your support, I will not stop serving Pongo and its residents. And with your vote and your support, I will continue to fight for your interest, for Pongo's interest, and for Singapore's interest. For as long as I'm here, I will serve with all that I have. I hope I hope to win your trust. Please give my team and I the opportunity to work for you and to work with you. Together we can build a caring, inclusive and vibrant Bongo. Vote for me and my team. Vote for Pab. Thank you. Thank you DPM2. Sorry. Thank you DPM gun for the inspiring speech. He's here to stand for Pongo. He's our task force man who never say die. Next up, next up, please join me to welcome Miss Sun Sh. My dear residents, my dear children, thank you for joining me for tonight's rally. A few nights ago, while I was walking in Northshore Plaza, a mother and her teenage daughter came up to me. They said they do not live here. They have traveled here far from where they live in the west to come and see me. They would like to take a picture with me, they said. I happily obliged. I asked the young lady how she was. When she heard that, her face crumpled and tears started rolling down her face. She said, "I read your Facebook post, Miss Soon, about how you were bullied in school and I needed to come and see you." "Oh, my darling girl," I said to her. I see you. She burst out into more tears. I put my arms around her. We took a picture together. Tears rolling down both our faces. I don't know how this young lady had suffered. She said she will write to me, "But pain sometimes transcends words. And when kindred spirits meet, sometimes words are not needed. In the midst of COVID 19, I had started a project with a group of youth. It was called project it will be all right. Amidst the fear and the uncertainty of COVID 19, we rallied youths together to share their mental well-being challenges. A total of 200 entries were received and we compared notes on where and how to seek help. It taught me the importance of opening channels of communication and respecting the experience of each and every person. As an MP in Pongo West, I pay close attention to the needs of my residents. I listen to them. I hear them when they speak. I listen with my heart. They are worried about the cost of bringing up children. They try to balance work responsibilities while taking care of young children. And ever since I became an MP in 2015, I started out as a backbencher. I have actively championed the interests of young families. When I heard about escalating infant milk formula prices in 2017, I did a market study. I felt an adjournment motion to have the topic discussed in parliament. This led to the setting up of an infant milk formula task force. And this subsequently led to the tightening of labeling rules and the introduction of lowerpric house brands which are affordable but similarly nutritious for babies. Young families also spoke to me about the wait for preschool places and concerns over preschool costs. After I took office at the Ministry of Social and Family Development, I actively worked on policies to increase preschool capacity and lower preschool costs. In the last 5 years, we have added about 520 infant care and 2,600 child care places in Pongo. Looking forward to the next five years, we will add about 370 infant care places and more than 2,100 child care places. And very importantly, our friends in Northshore, 260 of these infant care places and more than 1,500 of these child care places will be in Northshore. I have also announced repeated fee decreases in child care fees in the past few years. I know more will need to be done to address the needs of young families. In December 2024, I launched a child minding pilot for infants and at the same time we put in place extended paternity leave and shed parental leave for young families starting April 2025. Taken together, these policies are meant to provide more help for young parents with an infant. Recently, DPM gun has shared that he intends to appoint me as the town council chairman to look after Pongo GRC should he have the residents support. He has shared his views about why he thinks I'm suited for the job. My dear residents, when I first came to Pongo West, I had a challenging task. I remember when I was pregnant in 2016 at the same time in Pongo West, 37 of our HDB blocks had faulty lifts. The lifts kept breaking down. I was pregnant then. I did many engagement sessions and the last engagement session I did with my residents was 5 days away 5 days before I delivered my child at 38 weeks and 2 days. I like to think that the delivery of my child was particularly quick and smooth because I had to climb many stairs since the lifts were not working. Of course, all that sounds quite funny only on hindsight. Initially, we thought the lifts were breaking down because of the amount of renovation and moving that was happening in the new blocks. But subsequently after I raised it repeatedly with a ministry of national development and we had several meetings together with the lift contractor did we realize that there were design and programming issues with the lifts. Suffice to say, the foreign lift contractor was blacklisted for two years. And as a small country, we realized we needed more lift technicians and that was one of the reasons that led to a progressive witch model being structured for lift technicians. So my dear residents, what I want to say to you is that I hear you. I see you. I listen to you when you share your feedback with me. I do not just raise questions in parliament. As a political office holder, it is my responsibility to present solutions and this is what I do with the civil service and with stakeholders. So you are safe with us. You are safe with the PAP Hongo team. We will not only listen to you, we will speak up for you but also take action to create a better life for you. We are a party of action. We are the people's action party. for Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore truly. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! for forchech. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore knife. Fore speech. Fore the lighthouse. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore! Foreign! Foreign! for for Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Now, now, now let's listen. Follow the heart. Be clear to welcome Prime Minister Mr. Lawrence Wong. Residents of Bongo, fellow Singaporeans, good evening. Salam Sajatra, Malai Vanum, Tatia Wan, Shangha. We have reached the last day of our campaign and I'm so happy to do the PAP's final rally of this campaign right here in Bongo with all of you and with our PAP team for Bongo. Let me say a few words in Malay and then I'll do Mandarin and I continue in English after that. Campaign cooling off day. And Lu says The tapias and Panganasa dialogue town hall Singapur and Ping sayu Say sa akan terus malipa. InteraPac inclusive Happy. for way think that she need a singing the fancying the dreading. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Tren trenly. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! for the yogch. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore speech. It's Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Make Friendly speech. for running. Sing dong dong friends, residents, fellow Singaporeans once again. It's good to be here right here on this last day of our campaign. We've worked hard over the last nine days. PAP candidates have been walking all over the island, knocking on doors, meeting Singaporeans where you are, in coffee shops, markets, town centers. We hear you. We listen to you. We know your concerns. and we thank you for your words of encouragement and support. Thank you very much. I want to first give a shout out to our PAP team in Bongo. You heard them just now. They are led by Gimyong Singapore task force man. You've got Janelle. Shreing who's going to be your new town council chairman if elected and one ling the three of them have been here for some time so you are familiar with them you know them you have grown up with them your children have grown up with them for some time. So you are in steady and experienced hand. This is a strong team who will take good care of you in Pongo. Please support the PAP team. You have this happy. Thank you. Over the last nine days, you would have heard different arguments and views put forth by various political parties. In a campaign, emotions get heated up and I hope things will calm down as we go into cooling off day tomorrow. Then we can all take a step back from the heat of the elections and consider what really matters. And I ask all Singaporeans here in Pongol and everywhere in our island to consider who do you trust to serve you and your families? The party matters. The people you choose matter. They matter because they are the ones who will be the first to respond to municipal issues. The opposition says that national pro upgrading programs are now extended all over the island, which is so. But that is only the baseline, the minimum. Don't settle for the minimum. You can do better than that. A good team and a good team led by the PAP can make a difference. We can come up with innovative solutions. We can customize initiatives according to your needs. And we can make things better like what we have done right here in Pongul. You look at all you have here now in Pongo today. Yes, some of it was due to national planning and national programs, but it's not only that. It's because successive generations of PAP teams have carefully tended to your needs and worked hard to make this a better home for everyone. And this work had started even before some of you moved here. So I hope Bongol residents in this coming election and on Saturday will consider carefully. You know the PAP team well. They have shared their plans with you. James, as I said just now, will be the town council chairman if elected. As you know, she is a first rate organizer, a mobilizer who can connect well with you and will understand your needs. I'm sure she will be an excellent town council chair. Gimyong will chair will helm the new Northshore division. I think he's already told residents that. But he will also provide overall leadership for the GRC like Kyoshi Hen did before. Chihen is here. He told me he can have peace of mind as he retires knowing that there is a good and strong team being fielded here. And he hopes that residents of Bongol will have peace of mind by choosing the PAP team. So I hope all residents will give yourselves and your families peace of mind. The PAP team is ready to serve all of you and I have every confidence that they will make Pongo an even better home for all of you. Please support PAP Bongo. Heat. Heat. Thank you. Okay. Besides besides serving in your constituency, the people you select will also serve as leaders. It's not just to represent you in your constituency, but they will also serve as leaders in parliament and in government. And And here residents have to choose carefully. Man, I know there is some tension in the minds of some Singaporeans because on the one hand some Singaporeans say they would like to have more alternative voices in parliament to serve as a check and balance on the PAP. Yeah. Now I understand why some people would feel that way. But in fact you can be assured that there will be alternative voices in parliament. After all the workers party one of its candidates himself said that the workers party now has safe seats. So they with their safe seats there will be workers party presence in parliament. Furthermore, in this election, we have multiple hotly contested seats, GRC's and singles, not just here in Bongul, but in other places too, in other parts of Singapore. Some may well make a breakthrough. I don't know, but if they do, they will add to the opposition presence in the next parliament. So that's for those who who think that they would like to have more alternative voices in parliament. On the other hand, the GRC's are helmed by experienced ministers and they include new PAP candidates who could be your future leaders. Why is this important? Let me explain. If you look at my team today already four experienced members I'm talking about the senior ministers have stepped down already. One is Tan President Tan he stepped down earlier in the term and now Tosio Henugh there are others of course but I'm talking about the more experienced and senior ministers that's four. I have made a great effort to bring in new blood in this election to refresh and rejuvenate the team. But the new faces will take time to develop and grow before they can take on leadership positions. This the same for all of us. When I came in in 2011, I had to take time before I took on ministerial roles. Now, what happens if we were to lose a few ministers in this election? And we're not just talking one or two, but possibly three or four. Remember I said four had already stepped down. If I lose another four in this election, that's eight ministers. The opposition says, "Don't worry. The Workers Party team can do the same job at a cheaper price. But you know that cannot be true. The minister would have acred years of policymaking experience, ground engagements as well as building personal relationships with foreign counterparts. Relationships that take time to build, trust that takes times to forge. How would any new backbencher be able to come in immediately and do the work at the same level? It's not possible. Or you think about team sports like football. In football, if the members of the starting 11, your first 11, if some key members are unable to play, what happens? Well, the coach says, "Never mind. And I've got some backups. I got substitutes. Yes, you have substitutes. You may even have a super sub. But remember I said four already. Step down another four. If we were to lose another four, that's eight people. How many substitutes can you have? And everyone knows that even if you have substitutes, even if if you have good substitutes, the team cannot function at the same level. It's true in football. It's the same in any organization and it will be the same for my team. So to all voters to all voters all over Singapore to voters here in Pongal I would put the issue to you squarely to consider very seriously because the stakes are high. If you vote for the opposition, sure you will get more alternative voices in parliament, but you will also weaken me and my team. You will weaken our ability to serve you. Ultimately, you will weaken ourselves, Singaporeans, at a time when Singapore is facing a very serious and growing challenge. But if you vote for the PAP, if you vote for the PAP, you will not get the contrant voice that the opposition will surely make in parliament. Although you can be assured there will still be opposition presence in parliament, like I said, but you will get a dedicated and experienced team to serve you and your family. This team will speak up for you in parliament. They will represent you. And importantly importantly, you will have capable leaders in government who will help steer Singapore safely through this storm and take our country forward. So that's the key choice that Singaporeans and voters will have to consider each and everyone. I know it's not an easy decision to make, but that's your privilege as a citizen of Singapore. You decide on the future of our country. That's how democracy works. You decide on the future of Singapore. Some of you may ask how should I consider what what will I what will my considerations be based on? How will I decide? Everyone will have their own perspectives and views. I would suggest you consider carefully the character of the individuals you choose. Are they honest, truthful, upfront and upright people? Do you trust that they will always put Singapore's interest first above all else? The interest of Singapore and Singaporeans. Do you trust that they will uphold the fundamental ideals that we all cherish here in Singapore? So ask yourself these questions and consider carefully. I believe a lot comes down to character. Character matters and I can personally vouch for the character of Gimyong. Here is a person who has served Singapore all his life. He's a servant leader, steady, sincere, with a heart for our people. And now with a heart for all of you in Pongul. Kimyong is not alone. The others in the Pongul team as all of you know because you have already you are familiar with them. They are people you know, people you trust. They are committed, capable and they are here to serve you. So look at the individuals carefully, consider their character. And I say to all voters in Pongul, please give our PAP team your full support. Friends and fellow Singaporeans, over the last 60 years, you have trusted the PAP to build Singapore with you. The PAP has walked this journey with you. All this while the opposition party say they don't want to form the government. Whose responsibility is that? It's the PAP. The PAP does the heavy lifting. The PAP's job. It's not mine. They want more seats but not more responsibility. But the PAP has carried this responsibility responsibility and we have walked this journey together with all of you these last 60 years and more. And this journey together has been a journey of faith because Singapore began with nothing. We had not enough water, no natural resources, no hinterland. We only had a people with different races, language and religions, diverse but bound together by a shared conviction. a conviction that we could build something together, that we could build something better if we did it together. And so many people said that we couldn't make it, but we did. We made this happen. In one generation, we went from mud flats to metropolis. From struggling from survival to standing tall in the world. And look, it's not because we got lucky or somehow we got some we struck lottery. It's simply because we stood as one people and we never gave up. We dare to dream big and we work hard to make our dreams come true. And along the way, we forged something special here in Singapore. It's not just a successful country. It's a harmonious inclusive society and a strong and united people. That's the Singapore spirit. That is what got us here. Now the world has changed and what we relied on in the past is no longer guaranteed. You can see it around us. The major powers are clashing. Tensions are rising. Trade barriers are going up. Global rules are breaking down. So we cannot stand still. Our next chapter of the Singapore story will not write itself. We must write it together. And that's why I step forward to serve as your prime minister. It's not because I have all the answers, but because I love my country and I want to do my best for you, my fellow Singaporeans. I believe that our best chapters lie ahead of us and if we have the courage to renew ourselves, the humility to listen and the strength to stay united, we will prevail and we will forge a brighter future. That's what I've tried so hard to do and worked so hard to do over the past year to bring Singaporeans together and to chart our new way forward as one people. I've visited you in your neighborhoods. I've engaged our diverse communities, different ethnic groups, communities young and old. I've listened and heard from you in dialogues and in town halls because to me every voice matters. Every Singaporean matters. You matter. I've just started this work. As you know, it's only been a year since I took on the responsibility as prime minister. just six months as leader of the PAP. I don't do this work alone. I do it with my team. In the course of this campaign, I heard one of the opposition parties said Lawrence Wong is nowhere like Lie Kuanu. So different standards have dropped. And I kind of laughed because who in Singapore is like Lie Kuwanu? There is only one league one you no other. I don't compare myself to him. I am my own person. But remember even Mr. Lee Kwanu had a team to work with and so so too will I. I need a team to work with, to work with all of you, to work for you, and to take Singapore forward. Together, we have sketched out the outlines of our new vision, our shared vision for Singapore. A Singapore that's more caring, more fair, and more just. Where every child has a good start. Every worker gets a fair shot. Where families feel supported, not stressed. Where our seniors live with dignity and peace of mind. where progress is measured not just in dollars and cents, but in lives uplifted, dreams fulfilled, and a sense of purpose shared by every Singaporean. These are not just words. You have seen the changes we've made over the past year in cost of living. We have rolled out comprehensive packages in the budget to help you and the measures will be coming soon month after month. In education, we have reformed, we've made changes to reduce examination stress, pressure, unnecessary competition and to focus on what matters and we will continue to do so. In housing, we have ramped up the supply because of COVID disruptions. We have now caught up with demand and in time to come we will be able to stabilize the market and ensure everyone can get even more affordable housing. In healthcare we have increased subsidies. We have made it more affordable. We made it more affordable for long-term care. We are making it easier for you to stay healthy through healthier SG. For our families, we are providing more support for parents, for young children. For families with more children, you will get more support. So these are concrete changes we have made. But with your trust and with your support, we can go further. We can make our vision real for every Singaporean. But at the same time, I should highlight to everyone that the road ahead will not be easy. The storms that we are facing is already upon us and we must brace ourselves for more turbulence ahead. We cannot avoid these storms. It's everywhere in the world. We will be impacted by it. But we can choose how we respond to it. We can give in to anger, to cynicism, to division. Or we can choose compassion, solidarity, and strength. We can choose to tear down as some in the opposition might want to do or we can choose to build up. We can choose to pull apart or we can choose to pull together. and Singaporeans would have heard the campaigns, the speeches, the man, you have read the manifestos of all the different parties. You know what different parties offer. But I say to you what the PAP offers is very clear. We choose to build. We choose to pull together. We choose to unite Singapore. Look, the PAP is not a perfect party. No party is perfect. We make mistakes, but we have always been upfront with you. We own up. We learn. We improve. Through it all, every step of the way, we put Singaporeans at the center of everything we do. We don't just take the easy road. We don't just offer sweet and easy promises. We are prepared to take the hard road so long as it is the right and responsible thing to do. We don't promise that we can solve every problem. Some things will be very complex and may take time. But you will have our word that we will always walk with you, fight for you, and we will never give up on you. We will always do right by Singapore and Singaporeans. So if you give me and my team your support and trust, we will serve you with all our hearts. Friends and fellow Singaporeans, this election is not just about who wins more seeds. Your vote is a vote of what we believe in, who we want to be, what kind of Singapore we want. Do we want more politics or do we want real solutions? Do we want a country where everything is turned into a fight, divided by anger? Or do we want a country where we can find common ground, lift each other up and move forward as one? I say let's choose unity over division. Let's choose integrity over halftruths. Let's choose action over posturing. Let's choose Singapore and build our future together. My PAP team and I, every member of my team, every candidate will focus on what matters. We share a collective new resolve to solve your problems, to improve your lives, and take Singapore forward. So this Saturday, I ask all Singaporeans, you have heard from all the different parties, calm down, consider your options, and if in your heart of hearts, if you truly believe that the PAP is still the best path, party for Singapore in these uncertain times. Then stand with us. Support me and my team. Vote for the PAP. Your vote matters. Wherever you are, whichever constituency you live in, never take anything for granted. Voting is a privilege for Singaporeans. Your vote matters and will decide the future of our country. So, please give me and my team a chance to do our best for you. To all Singaporeans, to Bongo residents, I say vote for the PAP. Vote for a brighter future for you, your family, and for Singapore. Majula Pajula Singapura. Thank you very much. Thank you, Prime Minister Florence Wong. May I invite the candidate for Pongo GC and our guest speaker to the front. Friends and residents of Bongo, join us in the treachers, follow me. Mula Pul Singapur Mula Singapura Singapur Mula Pabula Singapura Singapur Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, DBNG. Thank you, candidates, our guest speaker. Thank you, PA. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Pongo. The rally has come to an end, but the fire within us will not end. Thank you. Please, please. Take your leave in a calm, cool, and a safe manner. We will see you again on third of May.