Heat. Heat. It's okay. I think I got I got some color shot here. You can move. You like I love this thought I No one stop. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat up here. Heat. Heat. Come on. Heat. ladies and gentlemen as you are streaming in a very very warm welcome to the rally at Jalan Caillou SMC. say that is such fantastic energy. Oh my goodness. Yes, we will be having more friends, more supporters, more family members coming in to join us very very shortly. So ladies and gentlemen, as they come on in, welcome them with a handshake, with a high five. Show them that this is the event of the year. That's the spirit. That's right. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, if you are coming in uh at this point of time, you'll notice that we have two chair uh two sets of chairs that are closer to the stage. Let me come on the stage to make the brief. Uh we go right. You'll notice that there are two sets of chairs that are closer towards the stage. Right. Oh, we have a friend over here and that's a a sign language interpreter. Can we give him a round of applause as well? Come on. Thank you. Right over here, ladies and gentlemen. Over here. Okay. We have two sets of chairs over here and over here because we recognize that PAP 60 years. 60 years. All right. Relies on the support of all our pioneer generation, all our media generation friends. And we want to thank you. We have catered special seats for you. Now, if you have any elderly friends, if you are uh young, able-bodied, energetic, where we want you to be is not in the chest, we want you to be in the front because the more people in front, the more energy that is gathered and the more energy, the more power that we will have in our rally. So for all our friends coming in, come on in. Join us. Fill up these gaps at the front. For our friends with the flags, you are important. Let me see those flags. Wave. Lovely. Mandastic energy. Right. Some more housekeeping matters, ladies and gentlemen. Some housekeeping matters we also have. All right. All right. If you need to use the washrooms, they are over there. All right. If you need to exit, they are over there. They over there. This reminds me of, you know, the over the old advertisement, right? The bodybuilder. The toilets are over there. Okay. Lame joke. More importantly, ladies and gentlemen, more importantly, all right, we have a lot of friends coming in. Say hi to them. If you see any familiar faces, most importantly, especially for our younger friends, right? Take photos, take videos, uh, show them, share them on your social media. let them know that we have a lot of powerful energy here today and we are expecting wonderful fantastic things and it is also because all of our friends over here supporting us. You guys make the magic happen. So thank you to everyone right over here. All right, we're going to get things going very very shortly. Right over here, right over here. Once again, very very important as you if you use anything, if you use any plastics, tissue papers, all of these as you take your leave later on after the rally, if you have any uh facial mask, if you have any pieces of paper, please look around yourselves after you take your leave to make sure that we don't leave anything behind. Now, we already have briefed our volunteers to help do a sweep, but I'm sure that our friends supporting the PAP, you are responsible people. All right? You are responsible people. You will make sure that this place is cleaner than when you came. Can I have your cooperation on that? Thank you so much. Thank you so much. All right, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, okay, now before we start anything, we still we still have quite some time. Right. I'm going to teach you a couple of things. I'm going to teach you a couple of things. All right. Okay. Now, usually we have our chair b this time. Okay. We're going to It's very It's very exhausting. Okay. I'm going to lose my breath after uh 1 minute of that. All right. So, what we're going to do, we're going to have a bit more impact. Okay. Can I have everyone? Okay. I want to I need your help. Can we do Can we do claps in this rhythm? Clap. Clap. Let me hear. Okay. Okay. One more time. Clap. Clap. Okay. Okay. We try that our time. Last time probably. 3 2 1 3 2 1 3 2 1 Fantastic. Next one we're going to add in. Okay. Again, these claps are for us to catch our breath, for us to take a because if we keep shouting BAB B, we're going to run out of breath, right? So, we're going to do instead of bap, we're going to do pab b. Fantastic. This is just uh this is just a practice round, but give yourselves a round of applause for that. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We are going to crank up the energy later on as our candidates start to join us. We're going to crank up the energy even more. But right now ladies and gentlemen, if you see any people beside you, if you see any people beside you whom you do not know yet, if you have unfamiliar face, give them a handshake, give them a high five and tell them which area you're from. Whether you are from whether you're from Kanbaru, from Yua or from Amoko GRC. We have some friends coming in from Sang Gang as well. And of course the home ground Jalan Caillou SMC. Ladies and gentlemen, make some friends because with this connections, with this friendship, we will be stronger. All right, we are counting on all the bonds that we have here. The more bonds, the more friendships forged right over here, we will take this rally to the next level. We're going to keep go. We're going to keep the energy going on later. We have some fan signs coming up. Um, there may neon sign. Okay, the neon sign already. Okay, no I can I can fix it later. Right. A lot of signs, a lot of sign black cards. Wonderful. Okay. It is starting to fill up. Once again, very very important, ladies and gentlemen. Safety first. Safety first. Always look out for each other's safety. If there is someone beside you, someone around you who looks like he or she is in trouble or he or she is in distress. All right. Ask for help. All right, ask for our help because we do have our volunteers here, our marshalss, our ushers, all right, who are looking out for you. They know where the assistance, where the medical first aid and support are. We do have ambulances on standby. We do have emergency plans, but most importantly, we need you to look out for one another. Right over here, we also have uh our exits at the back, the left as well as the right side. If there are any emergency, we we should need to evacuate. All right. We need to use these two exits at the back. Uh in case of really really heavy rain, stormy weather. All right. In case now I look at the weather. No. All right. And I am confident that tonight we are blessed. So we don't need to we probably don't need to use this uh emergency. But in the situation where the rain really gets too heavy. All right. the all especially for our more vulnerable friends for our friends who are more of a weak constitution I'd like to invite you to exit towards that side of the field and towards the can team of green primary school of course ladies and gentlemen and if there should be any rain Right. We have umbrellas. We have ponchos skater for everyone so we can keep the energy. We can keep the party going. So, as more of our friends come streaming in, right, we're going to take a we're going to take a while. We're going to go. I'm going to check on things. Once we are ready, we're going to come on. We're going to kick things off and we are going to show all the people of Singapore. We're going to show all the people of Singapore the power of the Anglo family together with Yuka Go and D. Thank you. So, we take a break. We check on our schedule and once we're ready, ladies and gentlemen, it is all night. We're going to show them the power of our family. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Nola. Bye. Behind your head behind me. Behind me. Yeah. You will be together. Everybody 1 2 3 1 Philadelphia. There has to be a big about yummy Here we go. Ladies and gentlemen, all our Angoku family, all our supporters of BAP, all the friends in Jalan Caillou SMC. Let me hear you ch clap clap. B B P B P B P B P B P B P B P B P B P B P B A Ladies and gentlemen of Cu FM SMC, our friends of Alio GRC, Yuk and Kar SFC and all our friends from across the island. A very good evening to you. Thank you for coming here. Can I hear you? Make some noise. Wonderful, wonderful. This is a fantastic energy, ladies and gentlemen. A very warm welcome to all our friends in the field. I see our field. We have so many people. All right. If you want to make your way to the front, come on over. Show us your energy. Show us where you are. And also, ladies and gentlemen, right over here, right, we are very blessed. Number one, why are we blessed? Okay, because firstly, look at the weather. Look at the weather. Clear skies tonight, ladies and gentlemen. Can we hear some noise? Number two, we are in the Hotlands. Look around you. This is Jalan Caillou SMC. This is the town of Fernville, right? We have plenty of residents in the HDBs. We have plenty of visitors as well. Okay. What I want you to do, turn around. Look at the multi-story car park. Wave to our friends over there. Come on. Thank you. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Okay. Well, we see some we see some phone torch lights coming out. Thank you very much for your support. These are the Wow. These are the balcony seats. Yeah, the balcon the gallery seats. Now, thank you very much for coming here. Of course, uh some people even on the rooftop garden having got chairs can sit down. Very nice. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, a very warm welcome. Thank you all for taking the time to join us here. Allow me to introduce myself. My name is Jackie and I am a resident of Angokill GRC. I Thank you very much ladies and gentlemen. I also have a ties to this place because right now here is Jalan Cayu SMC ladies and gentlemen my old area we I used to be part of Jalan Caillou as well and of course right over here we want to bring the energy tonight. Hi will be your MC for the part. Okay we have two parts here today. Now if you have watched our rallies right whether our PAP rallies or the other party rallies you will notice that the MC host throughout the event. Now today is a special arrangement. Why? Because on our slate of candidates we have some other people with fantastic talents as well and we're going to share some of the we're going to give them all the air time they need. We're going to give them all the support they need. Now before we can get into the main matters, we get get the main Oh, we have some uh welcome there, ladies and gentlemen. Before we get into the main matters, we have some housekeeping matters I need to run through with everyone once again. All right, first things. The exits. You know where the exits are because you came from them. Okay, once again, they are towards the back, the left side as well as the right side of the field. All right, should any emergency happen, should we need to evacuate, ladies and gentlemen, please do so in an orderly manner. We need to take care of our each other. We need to take care of our friends. We need to take care of our family. So, please take care of that. Now, if you need to use the washrooms, there are washrooms right over there by the hardcot. Okay? If you exit there, you will see the portable washrooms. Right? Thank you very much. Next thing, ladies and gentlemen. Okay. We are the white party. All right. We are the party of cleanliness. We are the party of purity. All right. As we leave this place, please make sure to pick up all your litter with you. Please make sure to pick up all your litter with you. Let in fact, let's leave this place cleaner than before we came. Can we do that? If we can do that, show me a thumbs up. Fantastic. I love your response. Love your energy. All right. Next thing we still have a couple of other we still have a couple of house other housekeeping matters. Should in the situation should it start to rain. All right. Uh our volunteers, we have prepared umbrellas. We have prepared ponchos. If the rain is not too heavy, we carry on because with rain brings lightning. And we are the lightning. Come on. Wonderful. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, if there shall be any medical emergency, all right, raise your hand. Shout out. Shout medic. Okay. medic because even though maybe we have speakers right first safety is still the most important. We need to get the person to safety. We do have ambulances standing by and we will be able to take care of all our friends over here. So thank you very much for your support for all our friends over here. We're going to get things started now. Hey, right over here we are in Jalan Caillou SMC. We mentioned earlier we are the Angokio family. the Ammonio family. All right, we have one major GRC. We have three SMC's around us because we are all part of the same team. We will be taking care of each other. Let's do a roll call. What is a roll call? I will be shouting out your name. If you're from that area, what I want you to do, I want you to clap. I want you to cheer. I want you to wave your flags. I want you to scream. Show us where you're from. Tell us that you are here and you're ready to represent. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get ready. We start from KB where our friends from Kban Barrow. Wonderful. Wonderful. Spread out. Okay. There we go. Some energy. Keep it going. Next thing our friends from Yo K. Oh, I tell you, Yuka, they are they are one of the earliest group here. their banners, their black players, their flags all the way in the air. I don't know how they do it. Some bionics going on. Next thing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, okay. Okay. We home ground will go home ground. We'll talk about it last. Okay. Next thing we also have because this is next door. This is neighbors with a huge huge GRC. Do we have any supporters from Sing Kong GRC? All our friends are back. Thank you for coming. Thank you for crossing the river. Thank you for showing your support over here ladies and gentlemen. Okay, next one. Our Angmoko family. Okay, we have a lot of different areas. We have various branches coming. Okay, uh people our friends under Miss Nadia where our friends from love it. Next up, ladies and gentlemen, where are our friends? Where are our friends? Okay, where are our friends from the uh previous Okay, previous Jalan Cayu is inside Amuko GC that's where I was from. Where are friends from the previous Jalan Cao? Wonderful. Wonderful. Excellent. Another place that is another place where I grew up, Aang area. Ladies and gentlemen, we our friends from Aloko Alang. That's it. That's it. Next up, we're at the home ground where our giant is. Well, friends, take miss out anyone or not. Where? Okay. Oh, over there. See those banners waving? Ladies and gentlemen, the home ground where our friends from this place. Where is Jalanga USA? Next up, we have a lot of friends coming together. Once again, I need to remind you that this is one Angokio family. Okay, all together, ladies and gentlemen, can I hear you make some noise? Angokio family. Wonderful. Wonderful. Let's keep the energy going. Okay, ladies and gentlemen. Okay. Next thing I'm going to share with you is called a rallying cry. A rallying cry. Okay. So, so I'm going to call right. You see our previous we always have this rallying cry modula cry. Okay. Mula cry. So this one I'm going to get everyone on the same page. Today we're going to do this set of two. The first time, okay, if a speaker or if I or any speaker later on comes up, the first time a person shouts majula, we respond with Singapura. The second time the person shouts majula, we respond with PAP. Okay, wonderful uh instructions. Okay, we're going to we're going to see which side is giving us more energy. We're going to cut down the line right in the center over here, ladies and gentlemen. Okay, our friends. Okay, we start with this side. Okay. Okay. When I say majula, you say Singapura. Second time, modula. BAP. Okay. With more impact, pump your fists into the air. Okay, people on this side of the field. Modula. Modula. Fantastic. Over on this side. Okay, this side. What a crazy you are. Okay, I'm sure you guys will do better, ladies and gentlemen. Okay. Modular. Modular. All right. All together right now, one angokil family. Modula. Modula. Fantastic. Give yourselves a huge round of applause. Thank you. Thank you so much. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. We are all very excited because this is the rally event of the evening. This is the rally event of the night. We are so happy that you are here to join us. But before we can welcome our candidates onto stage, before we can welcome our candidates and begin the main show, what I want to ask all of you here, all our friends over here, take a moment, think about it. Why are you here? Why are you here with us here today? There are reasons we take time to come on down to this event. We take time to to join our friends. There are time we take the time in the evening away from our family, away from our work to be here because we have very very important reasons. Let me share with you I myself I tell you I'm a resident of Almoko GRC for 30 years. I was a resident of Aljunit GRC. I've been through all right been through those many years in 2020 on the elections announcement the results of the election. It was a very powerful feeling for me. And with this result, I told myself, I need to step forward. I need to start playing my part. I need to play my part. I need to be there to build a better future for all of Singapore. I'm sure with us all over here, we all resonate with that message, ladies and gentlemen. But sometimes it's a bit difficult. We might be afraid to step up, speak up online. Why? because it is a very rough place out there. Saying I being there fighting for the BAP can get us a lot of backlash. But I told myself what is even worse is that we lose the future of Singapore. That's why I need to step forward. We need to brave these battles but beyond ourselves, right? What we face online, what we face in our Facebook, Instagram, social media. Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen. Okay, these are just small things. What is important is that these people, they are leading the charge. We are going to welcome them onto stage and they will show us where we can go and we will support them. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome our candidates one by one. As I read out their names, show them your support. First up from Amoko Aang from Amoko GRC, Daryl David. our friend, a champion from Sang GRC, Dr. Lamb Den. We have ladies and gentlemen from Ganbaru SMC, Mr. Henry Quan SMC Mr. Yip Hornway GRC Miss Jasmine Lou Gi Mr. Victor Liveashi, Miss Nia Salan Caillou, SMC, Mr. G. Ladies and gentlemen, our champion, the man who has led our country for so many years, Senior Minister, Mr. Lee Long. Thank you very much ladies and gentlemen. And today we have a talent, a man who has been in who has been in front of crowds entertaining people and leading people for so many years. He will be bringing you through the rally. Please welcome Mr. Daryl David. Good evening everyone. Y'all feeling good? Malai and to all of our crowd here, all of our supporters here. My name is Daryl David and I am one of the PAP candidates from our Angokyo family. I use the term Amokyo family, not Amokyo GRC, because we have our Amokyo family behind us here on stage. And together with my colleagues here, we are going to reach out to the people of Jalan Caillou. Where are you? Jalan Caillou. Gabonu. Where's Kabun Baru Yuk and of course Ang Mo GRC. We also have a very special group of brothers and sisters here from the NTU. Where are our NTU brothers and sisters? Can I hear you? Thank you. Thank you for your support. And for keeping our connection strong. Thank you, NUC brothers and sisters. It's been my privilege to serve as the member of parliament for Angokio GRC for the last 10 years. Especially my ward of Angokio Hang. Did I hear someone shout? There you see you. I hear you. In Amoku Akang, we always believe in building on what I call the A B C's of community. We assist, we build bonds, and that way we create community via our events, via our MPS sessions, via all of our initiatives. I've also had the privilege to be very involved in Angoko Town Council work as well as the vice chairman for 5 years. Do I see some hands waving there? You from the town council? Thank you for coming down our comrades from there and also as chairman for the last five years. Now town council work is not just about municipal management. We have worked hard as a team to not just maintain the environment, enhance the environment, but also drive townwide initiatives across the entire Angokyo town family by improving our homes. We renew estates and we also enhance communities. A wonderful example will be the Angono town center which we transformed from something that was rather old had been about 40 40 over years old and over the last 18 24 months we rejuvenated it. We renewed it. We we we rebuilt it. We remade it and now it's an exciting Angokure Town Center. Now how many of you here love your Angokure Town Center? I know but I love it. I know because I live in Angokio town so I'm there average once or twice a week. It is a wonderful town center. So to my TC colleagues who are out there, let me just say that I appreciate the work that you do. We all appreciate the work that you do and we hope to continue this relationship as we serve our people of Angongo town. It's also been an honor and a privilege to speak in parliament as an elected representative of the people. Now, I know you might have read some uh comments or people have made some comments about PAP backbencher MPs. Are they really effective? Can they do a good job? Are they afraid to speak up? Are they just quite quiet tow the line? Well, to those people, I can only say this. PAP backbenture MPs are not yes men or women. We are not yes men or women. And if anyone wants to categorize PAP backbencher MPs and such, then to me that's just nonsense. Yeah, PAPMP scrutinize and debate every government policy and bill. Sure, we may not oppose everyone thoughtlessly, but if we feel that's a good reason, we push back, we speak up, we challenge. I have spoken up many times in parliament with almost 25 years of experience as an educator in the education industry. I have spoken in parliament on the need for an alternative to the PSLE. I have spoken up in parliament on how we can enhance the professional development of our teachers. Perhaps the most important human resource Singapore has our teachers. I have spoken up for their professional development and I have spoken up about the need to provide a personal learning device for every child all the way down to primary school. So I have spoken up and I will continue to speak up if I am reelected. So I say again and I believe that I speak for many of my colleagues behind me on stage and many of our other colleagues who are PAP MPs. PAP MPs are not yes men or women. And we do speak up. We do speak up. Very soon you'll be hearing all my comrades and friends behind me speaking up as an Among U family stating why you should you should support the PAP and why you need to vote for the PAP on May 3rd. But before that though I want to bring everyone together as our Angokyo family. I talked about the different divisions, different parts where we came from and everything but tonight this is really an Angokyo family rally. So, are you ready to join me in bringing us together in the spirit of the Angokyo family? Are you ready to do it the way we do it in the northeast side family? All right, then. It's really simple. You know what to do family. One last time with energy. Our next speaker from our Amoku family is someone I know very well. I started volunteering with him in 2013 when I was uh just joined his meet the people sessions. He's a skilled doctor whose heart and compassion for people continues in Sing Kang to this day where he and his team have remained active on the ground. It is my honor to present the candidate for Sang GRC and someone I'm proud to refer to as my mentor, my comrade and more importantly my friend. Please welcome Dr. Lampin Min. My fellow Singaporeans, residents of Amoko GRC, Jalan Caillou, Kimbaru, Yukang, and most importantly my dear residents of Sang Kang. from GRC. Good evening and thank you for joining us tonight. It is truly an honor to stand before you, not just as a PAP candidate for Sang GRC, but as someone who shares your hopes, your challenges, your dreams for our home Singapore. It is encouraging to see so many familiar and new faces in the crowd. I stand here with a humble heart, grateful for the nearly 15 years I've been part of this Fernville community. right now in the new Jalantu SMC. Over the years, you have watched me grow as much as I have watched this estate blossom. When I first started serving Fernville in 2006, it was a young, almost empty estate. Many of you would have remembered the early days. Just a few housing blocks amidst of a lot of construction and open fields. But look at Fernville now. It has transformed into a thriving, vibrant and beautiful estate. This transformation did not happen by chance. It is our journey together and I'm proud to have contributed to it over the years together with my PAP comrade Mr. Ganto. I believe Mr. Unchiming will continue to serve Jan Kayu SMC well and make it a even better place for RAW. Funville's growth from a new town into a close-knit community is our shared achievement. Every new park bench, every covered walkway from the LRT, every block party, I see the fingerprints of residents who gave feedback and volunteers who poured their hearts into making it happen. I'm grateful you let me be a part of this beautiful transformation. Five years ago, Sink Kang residents spoke through their votes and I respected that. I returned to private life as a doctor, spending more time with my wife and two daughters. But something kept pulling me back to Sing. I found myself walking the blocks again, visiting the hawker center, chatting with residents at the coffee shops. Even though I was no longer your MP, I cherish the friendships and bonds we built over 14 years of working together. Many of you have welcomed me back with warm smiles during these informal visits. Some of you even shared your problems or gave suggestions just like the good old times. I'll be honest with you, coming back is a tough decision. My family had to accept that I will be spending many late nights out again, that I might not be home for dinner as often, that we may face the risk of another defeat. I discussed it again at length with my wife. In the end, she told me, "If this is for the residents of Sink Kang and it makes you whole, go for it. I'm blessed with a supportive family that understands my calling to serve. I hope I can show them through this comeback that when you believe in something and care for people, you never give up. But I also know that I am an underdog in this fight. It will be an uphill task. It will not be easy. I may have lost the election in 2020, but I never lost my determination to fight for you. I come with no ego and no entitlement only a sincere desire to serve you again. Now my friends, it is exactly this ethos and spirit of the PAP that the opposition parties have conqued this fallacy of the buy one get one free narrative. They say vote in the opposition but still expect the losing PAP candidates to deliver the services like a one for one view. Do you believe in that? In fact, it got even more absorbed recently. The new narrative of 1 + 1 + 1, buy one get two free. vote for the opposition and the PAP will work doubly hard as the grassroot advisor and the branch chairman. Do you believe in this too? Just like any scam tactics, if it sounds too good to be true, it is probably not true. In fact, 1 + one can end up being less than one. And why do I say that? Let me explain. It's about practical teamwork. 1 + one can be less than one. And that happens when there is poor coordination, conflicting policies or misaligned incentives. Often the case in constituencies represented by opposing political parties. Think of it like driving a car with one person steering and another person breaking. What's the outcome? Inefficiency and suboptimal performance. Progress slows down. Living environment stagnates. Given this, the real deal will be to vote for the PAP candidate. Why? Because the PAP candidate has the integrity and passion to be your voice in parliament. They will ensure an effective town council management and build a cohesive and caring community through the grassroot movement and on top of that still benefiting from the opposition voices in parliament through the NCMP scheme. This is the 1 + 1 + 1 + one deal. Don't you agree? In essence, this approach this approach achieves the best of both worlds. A strategic balance between competent constituency management and a diverse parliamentary voice. A true political sweet spot. My dear Sinkong GRC residents, we have come a long way together from the early days of m paths and sparse amenities to the vibrant sink of today. But our journey is not over. In many ways, there is still a long road ahead to fully realize the dream we have started. There are unfinished plans and new dreams we have yet to achieve for Sink Kang. I want to be here to see this true with you. I may have fallen in 2020, but today I'm coming back with even more determination and humility. I humbly ask for a second chance. A second chance for me to come back to serve you with all my heart. A second chance for us to finish what we started. A second chance to write the next chapter of Sing Kang's story together with you. So together, let's make Sang a better home for RAW. Vote for the PAP. Thank you, Binm. I first met our next speaker when we stood for election in 2015 as part of the PAP team. and we continued our team work to work together. He is the vice chairman of the Angokyo town council and played a huge part in the rejuvenation of Angokongo town center. Please welcome the PAP candidate for Kumbaru SMC, Mr. Henry Quack. Good evening my friends from Amokyo from Kabaru. 10 years ago when I first stepped into Amoko block 115, a place where many frail seniors without family support live, I met Uncle Ben sitting alone looking frail and tired. And I sat next to him. He told me, "Young man, all I want is to grow old with dignity, to be seen, to be heard, to be meddled." His simple words stayed with me because even simple wishes can be hard to fulfill. Loneliness is a hard reality for many of our seniors, whether living alone or when after losing loved ones. Loneliness becomes harder when coupled with sickness. And that's why we started Ideal at Block 115 to care for frail seniors without family support. Our people knock on the doors, cook warm meals for them, spark friendship through neighbors. We earn their trust, help them see doctors, and care for their health. so that each of their day feel a little bit better, a little bit brighter. Uncle Ben's hope and Madame Wong's story reminds me why I deal at 115 matters. Madame Wong, 78, was falling ill and growing increasingly isolated. Our befrienders found her through her neighbors and started knocking on the doors. At first, she was insistent on being left alone. Our neighbors found her hard to approach and avoided her. However, our volunteers continued. Slowly but surely, she came out from her shell, find purpose to even help her neighbors with her errands. And she told me, "I finally found home. Jila, as it's for fondly called, is now a home where seniors can stay active, stay connected, and live with dignity. As words of his impact spread, visitors from across the government came to see it. Hard questions were asked. What makes this work? How to sustain it? And how to scale it without losing its hearts? And that reflects something deeper. A systems of governance that listens carefully to small voices, examine what works and quietly skill it for the good of all. It is through this spirit of governance that the PAP listens not to applause but to the quiet hope of our people. Later cited DAO during his final national day rally as one of several community models that the government studied for developing H1SG and HLSG now serves all seniors frail and healthy all across the entire nation. This is just one small example of how the PAP government responds to good ideas, not for applause, not for optics, but by seriously testing ideas, weighing trade-offs, and quietly scaling what works. In parliament, PAP MPs propose real solutions, and the government responds with real steps, not slogans. My friends, in a time when the world feels uncertain, I want you to listen and to know that the PAP listens, the PAP delivers, and the PAP cares. Not just with words, but in action. Here, real care is to do what is necessary, not just what feels good. This is how hopes are truly honored. Not by promises or words alone, but by delivering results that stand the test of time. My dear friends, Singapore needs a pair of steady hands and a team of good stewards, honesty to test ideas, pragmatism to train turn ideas into action. And this is how PAP built Singapore step by step, crisis after crisis. And here in Kbaru, we built our home the same way with quiet determination through every highs and lows. Always moving forward together. Together, we've built a lush, beautiful, and caring home where sickness where seniors age with dignity. where young families grow with hope and we have remade Kamaru for a new generation for strengthening the roots that hold us together. Even as we cherish what we have built, we know our work is not done in the years ahead. We will focus on what matters most in Kumbaru. easing the cost of living, helping everybody live long and well, and preparing our people for a changed world. My friends, if you believe in this future for Karu, I humbly ask for your support and for your vote. Thank you. Thank you. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore line. And the future begins here in Kabaru, where family thrives, where seniors age with purpose and dignity, where we build a home that holds the dreams of our children. Because your hope give us purpose, your concerns give us resolve. Together, we will overcome challenges and build what's next with courage and care. Thank you, Karo. Thank you. Thank you, Henry. Our next speaker also works very closely with Henry and myself as a vice chairman of Amoko Town Council. He cares for the young and the old across generations. Is an avid sportsman and a long-d distanceance runner. So if you want someone to go the distance for you, then I say vote for your candidate for Yukong SMC, Mr. Yip Hon Wang. Dear fellow Singaporeans and Yukang residents, this election is about many things, but more than policies or promises. It's about something deeper. It's about care, about having someone who stands with you, not just when it's easy, but especially when it's hard. A few weeks ago, I met an elderly auntie at Kurdai, our free community shop in Yukang. She held my hand and said, "MP, thank you. This small thing, it helps a lot." Her words stay with me because in its hearts, what we do is simple. We care for people one resident at a time. Kurai isn't just a government program. It is a groundout initiative built by residents for residents, volunteers, donors, neighbors, all coming together to lift one another up. Since 2020, my mission has been to build a yukang where every resident feels supported and cared for. And that is what the people's action party stands for. service, solidarity, and standing with you in good times and bad. We know the cost of living is on everyone's mind. We didn't need headlines to tell us. We heard it from you at the coffee shops, in the market, and at block visits. That's why we acted through the assurance package. Families received real support. cash payouts, CDC vouchers, medicave topups, because caring isn't about grand speeches. It's about real help reaching real people at the right time. Let me share a few examples of what caring looks like here in Yukang. At Kurdai, residents pick up essentials, no questions asked. Project Greenstripe collected over 200 kilograms of clothing, giving families dignity and hope. We rolled out free vaccination programs for our seniors. Through our blanch meal initiative, $1 turned into a warm meal and a warmer smile. Our budgets meal initiative ensures 350 gets you a hearty meal at participating stores. Behind every initiative is the same purpose. To care for residents, to lift each other up. Yukang is home to many seniors and I care deeply about them. That's why we work to make Yukang Singapore's first fully dementia friendly neighborhood where seniors are embraced, respected, and supported by all of us. Caring for our seniors is not just a program. is a way of life. Caring also means carrying your voices where it matters in parliament. Over the past five years, I've spoken up over 580 times and delivered three speeches. Who on the other side has spoken more than me? Not because I like to hear myself talk, but because every concern you raise matters. Some may say only opposition MPs ask the tough questions. BAP MPs are silent backbenches. But let's be honest, that's a comm that's a convenient myth. What they don't see is that the so-called silent backbenches work even when cameras stop rolling. We speak directly and frankly to the ministers. We shaped solutions behind the scenes. When I pushed for higher medic withdrawal limits, it wasn't just a speech. I followed through and the limits were indeed raised. When I called for more service energy centers, I helped build the case for it. Today, we have nine centers across Singapore offering over 200 services under one roof. When I flagged the need for better multilingual communication for our seniors, I worked with agencies to make our messages clearer and kinder because caring means getting things done and following through. Across the PAP, my colleagues and I do the hard work because we care. We stay close to our residents. We build better policies symbiotic with you. We don't we don't just show up during elections. We show up every time it matters. My fellow Singaporeans, the lo the road ahead will not always be easy. There will be challenges. There will be moments of uncertainty. But we are Singaporeans. We do not give up. We lift each other up. We will find a way forward together because here every resident matters and every voice matters. So tonight I ask for your trust. Not just to vote for me, but to vote for the values we believe in. Vote for a future built on care, commitment, and community. Vote for the People's Action Party. Vote for Singapore that leaves no one behind. Vote for Singapore that moves forward together. Majula Singapura. Will we vote for the PAP? I ask again, will we vote for the PAP? That's right. Keep the energy going, my Amokio family. We are here as an Amokio family. Now, I met this next speaker only about three or four weeks ago, but since then, I have been absolutely impressed by her focus, her commitment, her attitude, and her general ability to be on the ball. Now, when I say on the ball, I'm using a very appropriate analogy because if you read about her in the media, you will know that she's an accomplished national, former national net baller, still plays basketball to this day very competitively. You know who I'm talking about, right? And that teamwork has really carried over as we work together as a team. She's also an accomplished professional with almost 20 years in the public service. So would you please welcome my teammate in Amoko GRC, Miss Jasmine Lao. Hi everyone. Before I start proper, I did want to thank the crew tonight and the volunteers because without their help, this is what you will see. Good evening, fellow Singaporeans. We stand here tonight for the same reason. Because Singapore is our home and because we believe in Singapore. I am a mother of two boys. They are probably watching Paw Patrol at night tonight. I am also a wife, a daughter, and a sister. I carry my loved ones in my heart. when I go to work, when I stand here tonight, and when I go home today, I want them to grow up, to grow old in a Singapore tomorrow that is brighter than the Singapore of today. And I know that you want the same. I've met so many of you over the past few days. Yes, I know I missed some, but I've tried my best. You shared with me your concerns about your children's education, your own jobs, and the health of your parents. But you don't just share with me your concerns. You also share with me practical ideas for your neighborhood. You tell me, can we put a bench at the pickup point for tired residents? You tell me, can we build a zebra crossing or paint one to help the students get to school safely? And you ask not just for yourselves, but for all the neighbors around you. I hear your concerns and I treasure all of your ideas. I promise to work with all of you to build that brighter Singapore of tomorrow. A Singapore where students don't have to pack their days with tuition just to compete with each other, but where we learn from each other to compete with the world outside. a Singapore where parents like all of you work hard, you feel fulfilled, but you also have strength to go home and nurture your children. A Singapore where opportunities don't just go to those with resources, but all of us have opportunities to keep improving our own skills. and a Singapore where our aged parents I think my parents are somewhere here tonight where our aged parents don't just enjoy an excellent health care system but we enjoy excellent health and can stay active and connected. Are we there yet? I don't think so. But this is the Singapore that I have worked hard over the past 20 years to build together with you. We listen hard. We study diligently. We debate passionately. And sometimes we get upset with each other. But we continue working as Singaporeans for Singapore. And this is what my teammates and I promise to work hard for in parliament with your support. We will listen hard. We will study diligently. We will debate passionately. And some days we will get upset with each other. But we will continue working as a team for you. So I ask for your support. I ask for your trust. The dreams I have as a Singaporean, the heart I have as a mother, and the conviction I have as a former civil servant. I will bring all these with me into parliament and together our Singapore of tomorrow will be brighter than today. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Jasmine. I told you she was on the ball, right? Is she on the ball? Is she on the ball? I look forward to playing basketball with her one day. That that should be quite a quite a contest. Our next speaker might be new to the Amoko family, but he's not new to this. We met 10 years ago when we both stood as candidates in 2015. His path is a bit different from mine. He's led the Aljunit team with determination and resilience and I'm sure he's going to bring that same passion and fire to our Angokyo team. Please welcome Victor Lai. Good evening my fellow Singaporeans. I am Victor lie lie tien tonight I only have a few minutes I want to cover some items on politics policies and people and as I go around we may have more time to exchange and share more ideas politics I have walked I've listened I've served from the ground up in effect for three terms outside of parliament facing off the leadership team from the opposition not once but twice. Rain or shine. Persevere. We work hard not just during elections but right after every election every day. The opposition knows this. My residents know it. This is the grit, the gumption, the ground experience that we bring to serve you in Angoko. My friends, with increased political contestation, we must keep our people united. Serving in an opposition ward, I have endured toxic and emboldened opposition supporters. But that's part for the cause. But it gets personal. When my children grew up, they told me not to read the toxic comments online about me. That pained my heart. That meant they had read those toxic rants and comments, falsehoods, and they want to protect me. I thank my children, my wife for supporting me all these years. Thank you. What kind of politics do we want in Singapore? I say our Singapore brand of politics is not that of overseas. It must be one that unites, not one that divides. As prime minister said, our fight is for Singapore on the world stage. Our people, our politics must unite. Our politics must be multi-racial without foreign interference. We cannot, we must not, we shall not tolerate political parties or leaders working with foreign interference that threaten our precious unity. We must call this out. policies. To govern, we need to win elections. But I believe it is ultimately to win our people's hearts. While in government, I worked on a wide range of policies. I have could have stayed on, climbed the ladder, but I chose to take a tougher path. in the private sector. I felt it would give me the right experience to be a better policy maker to be cut from a different cloth. In business, I have transformed. I have turned around many businesses. I have worked with multinational talent. I lived overseas. From a distance, I looked at Singapore. I appreciate our strengths. I understand our people's vulnerabilities. I hope to add my experience to the diversity within the PAP to put more heart into our policies. Logic alone is not enough. Being smart in policy is not enough. Coal efficiency must be warmed up by our people feeling that we care for you. Therefore, where we can, we must explain, consult, involve and win hearts to convince our people that we are doing it right, doing it well for you and for your children. If you are not convinced, we will have failed politically. For example, I have been retrenched. I know what it is like to apply for a job past age 50. I also wonder why someone with less relevant experience is hired. I say we must remain open to global talent but global talent that complements us not replace us. It cannot be at the expense of qualified Singaporeans. It must not crowd out opportunities for Singaporeans to get that needed experience. Good work has been done by MO, but we can do more to scrutinize employment practices. We must prevent the quiet displacement of Singaporeans that go unnoticed. People, you are at the center of what we do. Your PAP MPs have worked hard for you. In Fernale, there have been many estate improvements and social support programs. Most recently, Happy Mart in Bangkok. New community spaces such as the aquatic park and Bangkok Square all have added vibrancy. But going forward, we will improve transport connectivity, enhance the sports park, and bring even more social programs to build up our Kong spirit. The stakes in G 2025 are high. The world has changed. more uncertain, more divided, more dangerous. But we will not let it happen in Singapore. As we celebrate SG60, let's secure our future together. Choose competent, honest, and trustworthy leaders. So I ask you, has the PAP delivered through thick and thin? Has the PAP delivered unity and give us a secure future? Which party is honest, capable and trustworthy? PIP vote PIP Majula PIP Majula Singapura. Thank you. I told you he brought that fire and passion. Our next speaker is from our Amoko GRC team. I've had the pleasure of working her for working with her for the last five years and during that time I've been impressed by her dedication, her determination. She leads from the heart and what's even more amazing is somehow in that time she managed to have a baby who's now an adorable five months old. You know who I'm talking about, right? Do you know who I'm talking about? Can't hear you. One more time. Can't hear you. I am so happy to be able to call her I'm so happy to be able to call her my AD in the Among Us team. Please welcome Naria Sandin. Everyone Friends, fellow Singaporeans, residents of the Angokio family. Are you feeling good? My name is Nadia and I stand to ask for your support as a candidate of the people's action party. Thank you to my dear residents of Changan Celita for giving me the opportunity to serve you and your families over the past five years. In our local manifestos delivered to your homes, we have set out our plans and there is so much more that I hope we can do together. Yeah, ladies and gentlemen, rallies are not just about stirring emotions. I want to take this chance to honor the unseen efforts of Singaporeans through thick and thin, the silent strength that holds us together. My hope is that clear minds and cool hearts will prevail as you make your choice on the 3rd of May. By all means, let us disagree and debate with one another, wear our different colors on our sleeves, but let us also be kind. Because when the dust settles, this is home for all of us together. It is not about you versus me, but our small precious island city state against the rest of the world. How rare is it in the world today for people of different backgrounds to speak each other's languages, help each other as neighbors, accept our unique practices in the void decks and common spaces, sit at the same table in our markets as friends. It is not a given and it is precisely these special everyday moments which I see in Angmokio that keep me going for Singapore regardless of race, language or religion does not happen by chance. It is a goal that we work towards every single day building on it so each generation is stronger than the last. It is our sacrifices so that the whole is greater than the sum of our parts. If we have any hope of doing well in this already fractured world, we must reject divisive politics. The nature of racial and religious tensions is like gasoline waiting to be lit by a flame. And I will do my utmost to prevent what we have built from being set on fire. Will you too? In a world that can push people to extremes. As a mother, my hope is for our son to be able to listen to different sides and find a middle path. My husband who is here today and I we chose his name Misan in hopes that he would strive for balance and be centered in kindness to himself and those around him. Our children are our future and my colleagues and I in the PAP will speak up for that and do right by you. PAT. Record parliament access global Parliament Ramadan. Parliament Singapur is politics. Agenda issue complex. Young quick fix solutions DPAP Kami Janami Juna. Harmony. Friends, when I stood before you as a candidate in the last elections, I was 30 years old. I did so because I realized in the 55 years since independence, there were four Malay women who had served in parliament. Representation requires an understanding of the responsibility that comes with it and a full heart for every single person we serve, regardless of backgrounds or beliefs. I did so because I was grateful to be in a country which stands shouldertosh shoulder with nations far bigger than us with even more resources where home ownership is high where it is safe to walk our streets at night and where the grit and gumption of our forefathers who came to our shores persevered to build what we have today. I did so because our youth may be 25% of our population today, but they are 100% of our future. And with the support of senior party leaders, I believe that there is space for younger Singaporeans voices at the table too to speak with a fearlessness, to learn from the wisdom of many who came before me. I am grateful to the many youths who have participated in parliamentary visits in debates discussed their views on education, jobs and mental health with me and I am grateful to all my volunteers for walking alongside me. Now some say youth are idealistic but I say there is a difference between idealism and optimism. If we are not hopeful, if we do not believe that there is a chance to make things better, if we do not try and try again relentlessly, then there is no hope for Singapore. And so, my friends, thank you for coming out tonight. and our friends in the blocks and in the car parks too. Take action with us because we are a party which understands where we are in the world, what we can do and we deliver on it. Take action with the party that has walked alongside Singapore that you can count on. My friends, there is so much more that we can do together. Majula Singapura. Majula Bap. Adia. Thank you, Nadia. Friends, there are times during rallies where we invite speakers who are not candidates to join us on stage because we feel they add something to the rally. But this next speaker not only adds something, he has given his life to serving workers in so many areas. He's also been a former parliamentary colleague of mine. We had great conversations in the past. I've heard from him and I know that his heart is always with the workers. The general secretary of the union of power and gas employees. He has uh been a UNI leader for close to 20 years and a member of the NTU central committee. Our NUC brothers and sisters, do you know who I'm talking about? Please welcome brother Abdul Samat bin Abdul Wahab. Good evening family, brothers from Amoko family and to my s John's group Jalanka USMC. My name is Abdul Samat, a union leader of the power and gas employee. Like my brother, I was also elected into the NTC central committee. I've been a union leader for 20 years and the union leader spent a long time fighting for workers rights and welfare. Actually I come here today to talk about my brother but I found that workers party is worried that my brother is going into parliament. They tend to comment a lot about union leaders. They have multiple names for union leaders. Few years ago they call us foxy. Later they say we are silenced. Don't dare to speak up. Suddenly yesterday the secretary general say you leaders are very effective. So I want to ask the workers party can you make up your mind about union leaders? And while then you do that, please go and get to know about our unions. We are not rank and file unions anymore. We represent PMEs in Singapore. My brother and I, we shared tough conversations, meaningful ground moments, and shared more than a few loves. But through it all, what stood out wasn't just his leadership, his friendship. He's someone who shows up when it matters. Not for credit, but because it's the right thing to do. He leads with humility. He leads with heart. He leads with strength. Let me just share the five areas that has done and achieved for the workers of Singapore. Real pay rises for workers of 5%. Better pay for over 150,000 low wage workers. the laws to protect our taxi drivers, our private hire and delivery workers because fairness matters. Flexible work arrangements so that working parents like all of us, caregivers, anyone in need aren't left behind. Vouchers, injury support, education help. These are real support for the ones who need it most. These are real actions, real outcomes for workers that make a difference with the life of workers. Imagine if he gets into parliament, he can do even more. Fellow friends, Anime is someone who cares, who takes action and makes a difference. This is the kind of person that you need in parliament. To all Galanka USMC voters, if you want someone who listens, who cares, who delivers, vote for Ming. forchech. forchech. Parliament. SMCMC. Dear Unto Singapura, Unila P. Everyone, brother Shamad. Okay, you can see there are two speakers left on stage. So, the next speaker is got to be one of them, right? I first met our next speaker 10 years ago when we both stood as candidates in the 2015 GE. Since then, he served with commitment and distinction as a member of parliament, a minister, and is currently our union chief. He is the PAP candidate for Jalan Caillou SMC. Will you all please join me in welcoming now? Good evening, Jalanka USMC. I'm deeply humbled by your warm support and your welcome. Let me first speak a few words in Mandarin. Shaming man. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! fashion. Fashion. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Dear residents, comrades, brothers and sisters from the unions, friends, thank you all for the warm welcome into the Jalan Caillou and Fernville communities over the past five to 6 weeks I have walked the blocks of Venville and the streets of Jalanka. So happy to visit many of your homes shaking your hand and having meaningful conversations with you. During my walkabouts, some of you in a low tone and a concerning voice have asked me, "Why are you standing again?" I often ask myself that question too even now. But let me tell you my story. In 2015 then the prime minister Len Long asked me to consider stepping into politics. I was most hesitant. I was enjoying my SAF career, finding purpose in the SAF, protecting our beloved Singapore and Singaporeans. So when the question came, I was full of hesitancy. Honestly, giving up my private life to step into public life was not an easy decision at all. I consulted some of my mentors. They encouraged me. I sought the blessings of my family and honestly they were reluctant to give it initially. So I kept the prime minister waiting for 6 months before finally the sense of duty compelled me to say yes prime minister. If I'm good enough, I will step into politics and do my best to serve Singapore and fellow Singaporeans. After I was elected in Pasaris Pongo GRC, I learned the ropes in Pongo. It was a most rewarding journey. Why? because of the many encounters with the residents I met. Each case, each person meant a lot to me when I could extend support to them. And even so, when I could not, we would be alongside each other to do the best we can to give moral support. Over time, they have become friends. And importantly, I find so much joy and purpose in political life because at the neighborhoods, I'm serving residents directly. At the national level, I am doing my very best to contribute to national policies that would build the best future for Singapore. This purpose continues to motivate me today and that is one reason why I'm stepping forward again in GE 2025 for the elections. But the short journey came to an abrupt end in 2020 where I lost the GE 2020. I'm sorry. Can we get the medic to the front, please? The medic to behind the speaker, please. Can we make space? Give the person some air, please. We have a doctor with the patient. Okay. Can I get a indication that she's okay? Okay. Thank you very much. and Dr. Lim please assist. Thank you very much. Okay, she's okay and walking off. All right, please take care of her. Friends, my parliamentary career came to an abrupt end in 2020 when my team and I lost in Sang GRC. The loss had a big personal impact not only on me but also on my family, my union brothers and sisters and the pap. I had to ask myself in that time what should I do? Some like what our dear friend has shouted ja but others Some have asked me to tell you and carry on. Others ask me that it is time to move on. You have lost. Is it worth the sacrifices? But in 2020, we were in the depths of COVID 19. Lives literally were lost. Livelihoods were gone overnight. I was at the forefront observing the tsunami hitting the Singapore economy. Overnight, the aviation industry lost all passengers coming to Singapore. Revenues dropped to zero overnight. pay for our students gone to zero and retrenchments were looming. The hawkers, the food and the FMB outlets, had no business overnight. Even my taxi brothers and sisters, including the private hire drivers, had no more customers. It was literally desperate times. I recall in the coffee shop the desperation in the eyes of a man with tears in his eyes holding my hands. Mr. Can NTU extend some help to us. At that point in time I simply could not walk away. I had a duty to stay. I had a duty to safeguard the rice bowls of all the Singaporeans and ensure that food was available on the table for each one and every of them. At the same time, union leaders like brother Samat, sister Mary Leu, the president at that point in time and the former section brother Limu say rallied behind me asking me to stay on. They say that they wanted me as their leader at SEC gen so that NTU can carry the workers through the depths of CO. I I understood then what it meant to stand in the gap between desperation and hope. And I'm just glad that the unions, the NTU together with our employer partners and the government were able to bridge the gap and brought Singapore out of COVID and emerge stronger. I made a promise to the NTU in 2019 as their second gen. I make a promise that we will transform NTU in the years ahead and then COVID hit. I make a commitment that I will lead NTU and I'm glad I did even through the worst of times through COVID 19. And residents of Jalanga SMC, what I would like to humbly tell you is that when I make a promise, I will stand by that promise and deliver on those promises. This is my commitment to all of you in Jalan Caillou SMC. In 2023, my time in NTU was up. Unlike somebody last night who says that NTU is a safety net, a trampling, a trampoline of a catchment where we lose in elections, it is simply not true. I am elected as the segen of NTU every four years and I count on the mandate of workers and unions electing me into the central committee and to be segen of the NTU. Just like a member of parliament, just like the segen of a political party, we are elected into the central committee and as seg. I stand before you because I want to serve not with any safety net. As ironic as it sounds, when I stand to fight and champion workers interest to anchor job security, I am interestingly the only one without real job security. But in the course of NTU's work, problems do crop up time to time. sometimes big issues like in 2024 the income alleons deal. The proposed deal was done in good faith and was in compliance with the legal and the MAS regulations. We thought in the labor movement that it was a reasonable deal. Why? Because in the last 10 years, income's market share in Singapore has dropped from 20% to 6%. There was a real threat to the sustainability of income, especially in moments of crisis. The proposed deal could strengthen income and most importantly protect the interest of incomes policy holders. A stronger income would also enable NTU to do our social mission in the wide spaces besides insurance. That was our judgment. However, as the details of the proposed alian plan surfaced, the government saw it differently and stopped it by changing the law. NTU, we could not have known that the law would be changed, but we sincerely respected the government's view and accept it. We humbly acknowledged the public feedback that we have received. I've initiated a review in NTU enterprises so that we can learn the right lessons humbly, do better for fellow Singaporeans in NTU. We will do our best and sometime I'm sorry that it is not good enough but we will learn the right lessons and we will do better. So coming into GE 2025 I knew it would be a hard fight. I know the opposition would drag these issues up just as is happening now. Nevertheless, in my discussion with Prime Minister Lawrence Wong, I told the Prime Minister I was prepared to run if asked. I told him, however, my preference if I were to get back into Parliament, I would like to do it on my own merit. I'm glad PM Wong heard me, considered my views, and therefore today, dear voters of Jalanka SMC, I stand before you seeking your vote to get back into parliament as the secretary general. General of NTU. We have heard from the first time the workers party saying that we are doing a good job. We are no longer folksy. We are no longer this and that. That but that we are doing a good job. But yet interestingly he says that I do not need to be in parliament. I fail to understand that because in parliament as a MP I can speak up for workers. I can speak up for the residents of Jalanka SMC when national issues are debated and major decisions are made both for the workers including the PMEs and all the residents of Jalanka. I hope the residents of Jalanka will make me your MP and speak up for you in parliament. But Mr. Pritam Singh holds a different view. He says and I quote, there is no shortage of PAP labor MPs. He also said voting in these two PAP NTU candidates will not make a difference. Sorry, I can't hear you. But when I heard that, I did a quick mental calculation. The Workers Party won 10 seats in 2020. In the Labor movement, we only had seven Labor MPs. That's less than what the Workers Party has. And he says from the Workers Party that Singapore don't need Labor MPs in parliament to speak for workers. This is coming from the workers party. No need workers representation to champion workers interest, better wages, better welfare or better work prospects. Pritam Singh said that I as NT6 Zack Jen don't need to be in parliament because they are labor MPs that are in parliament already. Can I ask a simple question if is if that is the case there is Sylvia Lim and Fiser Manak the chairperson and the vice chairperson of the workers party already in parliament. Why do we need Mr. Pritam Singh the second gen of the workers party in parliament too. So friends here I am standing before you telling you my story trying to build and unite. But what the workers party is doing is to criticize and tear down without any concrete plans or proposals to substitute. Miss Sylvia Lim said that the workers party does not have a plan for constituencies where they are not incumbents. I say that again. The workers party does not have a plan for constituencies where they are not incumbents. Can you believe that Jalanka? What it means to you in bright neon headlights headlines is that the workers party have no plans for you the residents and voters of Jalan Caillou at all. They want your vote, but they have no plans to build Jalanka into a home that you want or desire. Is this the responsible opposition? Is this the responsible opposition they claim to be? Is that someone that you want to entrust your homes, your families, your Jalank Caillou to? Surely not. Compared to what the PAP has done in Jalank Caillou in the last 5 years, we have walked the journey with you, taking care of you and growing this very community with you that we know and love today. And over the past five to six weeks, I've been here practically every day. And I'm so encouraged by the Jalan Cayu Kong spirit I've experienced here. When neighbors meet for breakfast at the Happy Hawker coffee shop, block 44 433 where children play together in Fville Square. And now after five weeks, it brings me great joy when I stand outside the RT station where children come up to me to either hug me or give me a high five and say, "Mr. I recognize you. I know I know that this is the community that you have built and come to love and I seek your support humbly to be part of it. I know that a lot of good work has been done by my predecessors Mr. Granto as and Miss Unlangling. They are such gracious people. They have walked alongside me in my walkabouts and during many of the visits I saw the happy faces of joy greeting them and telling them what a good job they have done. I agree and I will do my best to build on the foundations that Lingling and Tempo has done for and for the Jalank Cayillou to be a better home for everyone here. I give you my assurance that all the community projects that you so treasure including the heart-to-heart milk fund vouchers for milk powder to ease young families with troers burden and the happy m at Fernville which recently just opened offering basic necessities to families in trouble. I assure you I will continue with all these projects to make sure we born Jalanka where no one is left behind. While we take care of the needy, we also ensure that we have heartwarming activities that jou and born our community. I know you like the spring festival for our seniors, the upcoming Mother's Day celebrations and the family carnivals. Again, I will do those continue to do those initiatives for you if you would support me in my endeavor to be your MP. I'm reminded of my time as I told you earlier serving in Pongo from 2015 to 2020. I got to know many of the residents and some of them have become friends. I listened to their concerns and took action to resolve them. I'm happy to see some familiar faces from that time and Mr. and Mrs. Leong are here with me tonight. I saw them at the Fville Carnival. They ran up to me amidst crowds like this to say hello and ask me a most difficult question. Mr. N, do you remember us? And for this instance, I say yes, I remember you. You are an engineer and you were so happy and delighted that you ran down from your flat one hot Sunday afternoon to tell me that the good news that we have been able to match you to a new job. I treasure moments like this. They give me joy. They are the reasons I do what I do today. I'm glad Mr. and Mrs. Leong are able to join us today. Good to see you and thank you for the friendship over all these years. And during a recent block visit, a young lady came up to me very excitedly and show me a folder of two photographs that we took. Hi Ellie. She showed me a folder of two photographs when she was in sect two and sect three and then say Mr. I was that little girl. Today Ellie Ellie is a name is a young confident woman in university and I'm glad to see Ellie and her family here too. Friends, these are stories that keep me going. It is a key part of why I stand in front of you tonight to stand for elections again. I want to bring the best of my skills, the richness of my experiences to serve you, to build a better home for you in Jalanka SMC. Because at the heart of it all, it is not just the policies or the projects. It is you the people. Real lives, real challenges, real aspirations. We will journey along this road together with you for you. But dear residents, we are living in a troubled world. The UF terrorists have caused a lot of uncertainty and as a trade dependent nation, Singapore may be hit hard. I'm very concerned about our future. Union leaders are already telling me that companies are freezing hiring, freezing wages. So these are not distant concerns but already in our shores. If you are a youth entering an university or the workforce, I can understand how this can cause anxiety. I remember meeting Ryan during one of my block visits. He was about to enter university, but already worried and talking to me at length about getting a job after he graduates. And for many already in the workforce, they worry about job security, security, and the cost of living. That's why this GE matters. You are voting for the government, for the PAP to lead Singapore through the impending crisis. You are also voting for me to be your MP to serve you in Jalank Caillou. Right here in Jalank Caillou, there is still much more to do. I met Madame Go during my block visits in Fernville. She is a single mother that has a 35-year-old special needs daughter. He has special needs. In fact, Madame Go just went home because the daughter needed her attention. She has just started work as a part-time cleaner to earn a living and she openly shared her worries with me. I quickly took action and connected her with her union and NTU to find ways to best support her. Beyond financial help, I want her to know that she is not alone. We are here to lend a hand and to listen. Unfortunately, Madame Go has to go home. But I give her the assurance that we'll always be alongside just as I give assurance to all residents of Jalan Caillou that we will be alongside you. We want to build a kinder, stronger and more inclusive community. At the same time, I've heard your feedback on the different issues and we'll take action on issues like the bus, the RT connectivities and do better. We also build better sports facilities that are in good working conditions. We have already started on many of these works and we will carry through to serve you to the best of our abilities. Dear Jaliku and Fernville residents, there will be people who will make empty promises, but I am the one who will stay the course, take action and deliver results for you. I will be the one to deliver a better Jalan Cayillou for you and your family. Please vote. Please vote the PAP Majula Singapura. Majula PAP. Thank you very much. Everyone, our final speaker for the evening. You know who I'm talking about. Please welcome Senior Minister Lisa Long. Good evening everybody's friends and fellow Singaporeans. Let me start the national language. Singapore. Fore Islam. Lawrence Wong. Singapore. for line. forch. party papar. Singapore Timasi. CDC voucher. foreign. Fore speech. for woman. Okay. foreignch. woman. Woman foreign. So, Fore! Foreign! Foreign! And whatchech Why children? Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Why male friendly? for leader. foreign Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore! Foreign! Foreign! foreign. Fore speech. Friends, tonight I want to talk about four things. What is this election about? Second, what can we do about the problems in the world which affect us? Thirdly, why you need a strong and good government to deal with all this. And fourthly, what the PAP can do for you. The world has changed. Every day you see new you see you see new headlines. Tariffs, trade wars. I do this to you. You do this to me. Tomorrow the rules change. Day after more changes come. Big trouble. What does it mean for us? It will be harder to make a living. Harder to export. Harder for our companies to have stable jobs. harder for people to predict what they can do over the next 5, 10, 15 years. And we have to understand that and we have to be able to react to that. This time the problem is not transient. It's going to go is not going to go away because the world has changed and we have to be psychologically prepared. We have to know what we can do about it. What have we done? First, we have already got a big package in this budget because we knew this was coming and so we prepared for it. We made a big budget package and it is being rolled out now. All kinds of things. CDC vouchers, GST vouchers, SG60 vouchers, kids life vouchers. You save an typical family can receive maybe $5,000 from the government in various forms of help this year. is not small. So when Pritam Singh says toothbrushes and ice cream, you can buy a lot of toothbrushes and ice cream with $5,000. And we can do more if we need to. We also have initiatives to help you with jobs to help make sure that you can keep your job that you can train for the next job and if you have lost your job to help you go into the next job. We have measures to plan for the future. Gang Kimyong is chairing that. These are all tangible forward-looking ways to help Singaporeans cope. We know what we are doing. You have you know that from your own experience. So when the WP says PAP's manifesto so short no detail mine 120 pages wow 200 pages will be even better low you we don't have to write it down you look around you you will know what Singapore has done what PAP has We did it together. You with us Singaporeans with a PAP with a government with the unions. We could do it because we had a good team who could turn who could turn plans into reality. And we did it in the last term during COVID. We got through lightly. Not so many deaths. Vaccinated everybody. No the anxiety but no upheavalss. Relatively speaking. All went well. Why were we able to do that? We concentrated on fighting COVID. I got an election early. I got it out of the way. Now, if I had not done that, we would be futing around with politics in the middle of a crisis and people would have died, lives would have been lost. But we lost one GRC in that election in 2020. Sing Kang and we lost Ming. Fortunately for us, Niming had the grit, the sense of responsibility and he stood by his post. He helped us and got the unions to help us with his NTU labor movement team to see through the crisis. Help workers, train them, support them, encourage them, take care of them. And at the end, we came through. He proved himself reliable, trustworthy, committed. Therefore, this election 2025, I recommended to the PM and the PM agreed and invited Chiming to stand again and he is in Jalan Caillou SMC. I commend him to you wholeheartedly. I ask you to give him your full support. He will serve you well. So good government is about good people, good ministers, MPs, a team. And to do that, to have a good team, you must first vote them in, right? We have ministers and MPs and potential office holders all over Singapore in all the GRC's including the hotly contested ones. And if you don't vote them in, every seat we lose, every GRC we lose, you lose a minister, well, okay, I make do. I lose two ministers, harder to make do. I lose three ministers, I'm in some trouble. I lose one key minister. I'm already in quite a lot of trouble. Giong is in Pongul. He went there because Tio Chihen is retiring and he is standing. He is taking care of Pongo. There's a hot fight there. What does Gimyong do? He's the deputy prime minister. That's just a title. But he is in charge of the economy. He's in charge of MAS. He's in charge of our foreign trade. He's been talking to the USR trade representative even during this campaign and he's in charge of our crisis response to survive whatever tariffs and and upheavalss and trade wars are to come. You lose him, you can replace him. Somebody cheaper. Are you sure you want to save money like that? It's very expensive to save money like that. Please understand. So I hope everybody all over Singapore understands and especially in Pongol. Please understand. Support Gimyong. Vote for him. Make sure that PM Lawrence Wong has a good man in cabinet who can do a lot for Singapore. The opposition says no. No problem. We We need more opposition MPs in parliament. You see, we ask a lot of questions. BAP don't ask questions. What's the proof? He says income alleons. He says no. BAP Labor MP ask questions. But workers party asked. Wow. But what he didn't tell you is the Labor Party may not the the Labor MPs may not have asked questions, but six PAP MPs asked questions. Only one workers party member did. So in fact, you don't need the workers party to ask one extra question, right? Six. It covers everything already. And when somebody tells you half the story and then leaves one half closed and doesn't tell you, you wonder what on earth is he hiding. So we open, you open the curtain. Ah, that's what it's about. But income was a serious matter because the labor movement had made an arrangement to sell income to alleons share of it and they felt it was a reasonable deal and they supported it and the government looking at it says well it meets all our legal requirements it meets our MAS regulations I think we can support it too But after the issue was discussed further and we went further into the matter, the government has found out more things and decided no, we have to change our mind. We have to say we oppose this deal, we will block it, but we have to change legislation, change the law so that we can block it. NTU cannot do that. The government has to do that. But it shows we are brothers with them. Symbiotic relationship. You make a decision. I look at it impartially, objectively, aresh. There's no group think. We understand why you did it. You have to understand why we did it. And we are accountable to Singapore for doing the right thing. Workers party had nothing to do this. When we went for the legislation, Workers Party abstained. So if it had been left to the workers party as government then the deal would have gone through because they didn't oppose it. Right now you didn't do anything and you want to tell me that vote more of me in so that I can do more for you. What's for 0 is 0. 2 * 0 is 0. 10 * 0 is also zero. So our system works and therefore in this election I ask you in all seriousness not a tactical not a rhetorical argument but in all seriousness don't try to count give him a little bit more votes give him or him try to get maybe just two or three more MPs from the opposition is very nice you will not get it right and we can mess everything up. Just vote according to your heart. You think PAP is good, vote for it. You think we are bad, vote against us. Don't play games. It's very dangerous. Finally, let me let me say something about the dangers of mixing race and religion and politics, which has been in the news recently. The government came out very strongly on this. It's a very sensitive matter. This is the middle of a very hot election campaign. But the matter came up. We had to raise it. We could not wait because foreigners have no business to interfere in Singapore politics. And whether foreigner or Singaporean, race and religion have to be kept separate from politics. And in this case, what was the subject about? It's still circulating online and you can see it and it's still causing trouble. MPs and candidates are being attacked because they're not championing the causes of their own racial or religious group. Strididently enough, people are saying that chap is not fierce enough. I will be fiercer. Vote for me. I will champion this. and there's a foreign political party which is asking Singaporeans to vote for this or that Malay or Muslim candidate on the basis of how staunch a Muslim he or she might be. What business is it of theirs? And even if it is their business, is that the right way to do it? So Singaporeans have to understand that this is happening, realize the dangers and stand up and reject it forcefully and affirm we are one people regardless of race, language or religion. Now this has been going on for some time but now after the PAP government stood up and put its position out clearly and acted to block the foreign sites all the other parties straight away within day says I also agree I also agree I also agree day before yesterday where were you didn't notice you didn't know or what bordo So when you go into elections, vote for the party which stands for multi-racialism. Vote for the candidates which uphold multi-racialism really and truly and from the bottom of your heart. And if you do that, this system can work. There are people who are many, many Singaporeans who are convinced that this is the right way for Singapore. multi-racialism, give and take, meritocracy, one Singapore from the day of independence. In fact, from before because there were people like this, we got kicked out of Malaysia. And because the people were like this after we were kicked out from Malaysia, we stood and we built today's Singapore. And even today, I make this appeal to Singaporeans of all races and all religions. stand with that ideal. It serves us well. It's good for the minority communities. It's good for the majority community too. If you clash, if politics becomes racebased, Chinese party, Indian party, Malay party, Muslim party, Christian party, Hindu party, there are a lot of such things all over, not very far away. And we fight, we all lose. Don't do that. know it seriously and consider that when you vote. So let us but this election is not just about that. It's fundamental but there are other things on the agenda. So let us focus back on matters that Singaporeans are concerned with because a changed and troubled world lies ahead of us. But we are not powerless. We have agency to help ourselves. We need to choose a good government that can bring us through the troubles ahead. One that will bring steady hands and concrete plans to help us all pull through. One that is honest and open with you that you can trust to fight for you and fight for your children, too. We don't tell lies and we don't tell lies about not telling lies. We speak the truth to you and to everyone. That is one thing which can keep Singapore special for many years to come. We've had such a good team for 60 years now, more than led by the PAP. At every election, we have refreshed it. This time, we are bringing in people with the right values. We are introducing a good mix of experience and fresh young energy. We are bringing a new resolve to take Singapore forward. Actually, I don't think the PAP has done badly by Singaporeans. Do you? And I would say that even the opposition MPs and leaders know that. Why do I say that? Because after 60 plus years, they don't say vote me change. I will be better. They say don't worry. I only got less than onethird of the seats contested. So you are sure to have a strong PAP government after the election. Therefore, you can vote for me. Everything is correct except the last bit. And that means we have lived up to our responsibilities. We have upheld the trust. We have done the right thing. And our conscience is clear by Singaporeans. We could do this for one very important reasons because you have supported us. Your parents and your grandparents supported us and supported our older generation PP leaders and Singaporeans understood what was at stake. They knew it's not masa masa is not mine mine is not playing goalie. It is your lives our lives. It is our children's futures. It is Singapore's fate in a very dangerous world. And if we don't know that, then the dangers will eat us up. But we know that. We uphold what we have what we know works. We support people who will serve you and you will have Singapore prospering, thriving and making us proud, standing tall in the world for many years to come. Thank you very much. to arm your family. Let us end this evening on a cheer together. Are we all ready? Are we all ready? Repeat after me. Majula Singapura. Majula PF. Majula. Majula Singapura. Majula Singapura. Majula PF. Majula PF. One more time with feeling. Majula Singapura. Majula Singapura. Majula PF. Look out. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, these are the leaders. These are the people leading the charge in our family. Can I hear you make some noise? That's right. We've done this. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a long evening, but thank you to everyone right here. Thank you so much for your support, for your energy, showing us right here we have a strong base in Jalen Gao. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. And with this, we have come to the close of our Jalen Gayou rally, but there's still so much more work to do. And all of you, thank you for your efforts because you are helping us bring this election. You are helping us bring this to the next level. Thank you to everyone on your way out. Please move out in an orderly manner. At the same time, please look around you. Make sure that there are no litter, no nothing left behind. We want to leave this place burn green primary school cleaner than we have come. So let's all do our civic responsibility. Let us be strong supporters. Let us be people who take care of our environment. Right. Once again ladies and gentlemen for all our friends right joining us here at Angokyo families our Jalan caillou rally thank you all so much for your support for your energy it's been a wonderful evening it will be a great fight ahead thank you all and once again modula modula thank you and good night All right. Thank you.