operating with you sir. So while we are waiting for the rally to start and since I'm going to mic test um let me welcome everybody here see the shaming Okay. Merchandise. merchandise. Yeah. To our supporters, we need all the help we can. Please go to our merchandise booth and you know grab something. We have Dr. Tree books. We have Bears, we have Clapper. For those who don't have Pipe, I think our booth also have. Please go and buy. And there's flags, there's donation tents. Yes. Thank you very much. And while we are waiting in case I don't have the opportunity later on because by 10:00 everything have to shut let me take this opportunity on behalf of SDP I would like to extend our gratitude to all of you who are here who brave the rain the muddy uh field um to be here with us and also to our volunteers. Can you please boom to all our volunteers? Give them a round of applause whether they are here, they are behind. Give a round of applause to all our volunteers because without them all this thing won't happen. And also give a round of applause to all our men in blue. They also working very hard to make sure everyone is safe. Thank you very much. And I must emphasize your vote is secret. Your vote is secret. Vote for us. Even our policemen can also vote for us. Their boss will not know. Okay. I I see the energy here today. Shall we? While still waiting for the the rally to start, let's have some RAR. Come on. SDP SP Dr. Chi Okay. Merchandise. ah a reminder. Okay. For those of you coming to our the rest of the rally, please come in red and show your support to us. Okay. And those who doesn't have red, please behind us t-shirt, you can get your red t-shirts from our merchandise. Thank you very much. Oh, okay. Come see. Come sore. Let's go. Let's go. Nothing. Okay. oil.chech. Thank God. I don't know. together. I want to move on to learn. everything. Yes. Blue coming. We support him from the back. Oh yes, that's true. Yeah, you don't have to water. You don't know. You don't know what like no you go see BP bro take back everybody many don't know English inside. We love them. We are here. Oh, you Hi everybody. While we are waiting, just an announcement. We need volunteers for polling agent and county agent. Please go and sign up. woman. Why is polling agent call? Anybody? Huh? Yeah. Huh. Polling agent. Okay. So, um, can I please request for more volunteers to help us with the polling agent, counting agent? Um, you can sign up and find out more from our booth behind Um, polling agent. I think we learn new things every day. Okay. Okay. the Lord. So, woman running fasten. So dreaming. Hi everybody. Good evening. Sorry, I just came because I just had to finish work. Yes, my co everybody having a good evening today. So now, shall we? SP SDP, we've got a very very line long lineup of our candidates lined up for you tonight. But at the beginning of tonight, we're going to have a warm-up speech by one of our young Democrats. His name is Joshua. He has been volunteering for Dr. Chi for quite a while as well. Yes. Sorry. Yes, of course. If you have whistles, please use them for the rest of tonight. If you have clappers, yes, please. The more noise, the better, please. Tonight. Yes. Let's welcome Joshua Just bear with me. I'm not uh I'm not Dr. G by any long shot. So, and this is my first rally speech. So, if I got a little bit of hiccup, just forgive me. Okay. Good evening, Singapore. Thank you everybody for coming today for really a lot of you. It's very encouraging. Allow me to introduce myself. My name is Joshua Shu and I am 29 years old this year. You might be wondering what is a foreigner doing up here. Well, that is because my parents migrated here from Taiwan sometime in the '90s. But let me assure you that while I may look very different, I do not have a multi-million dollar goodass bungalow, nor do I earn a $10,000 salary at high tila. While I might be a second generation Singaporean, I am not immune to the fear of opposition politics. Like many Singaporeans, my mom has repeatedly told me not to risk my career and safety being in opposition politics. She says it in Chinese. Fanta as such I have had second thoughts of backing out from today's speech but I remind why myself why I am doing this today to give voice to those who have none to speak truth to power. Today I want to direct my speech to those of you who have yet to decide who you are going to vote for. To those of you who are open to consider a viable alternative, I joined the STP shortly after GE 2020. And throughout the years of being on the ground in Bukit Bat with Dr. Chi and the STP team back when Buket B was a SMC, I have had the privilege of having the residents of Buket B share their stories with me. Today I want to share a story that left a deep impression within me. For the purposes of protecting this man, I shall name him Mr. Tan. Mr. Tan is a young senior. He works as a cleaner earning $1,900 a month before CPF. Mr. Tan's mother unfortunately suffered a stroke and was admitted into a community hospital. The community hospital has provided Mr. Tan's mother a 75% subsidy on its daily bill charges which works out to be about $1,110 a month. Because of his mother's financial circumstance, Mr. Mr. Tan would have to cover for his mother's hospital bills. Aside from this, Mr. Tan has an insurance policy that he must maintain should he be hospitalized, which works out to be about another $500 a month. So, 1.9K income before CPF, $1,110 hospital bill, $500 for insurance. If you do the math, you will realize his monthly income has been pretty much neutralized. Don't forget, he also has food, utilities, and other miscellaneous bills to pay. So, how does he survive? Well, from time to time, Mr. Tan tries to keep up by applying for comare assistance. Sometimes he has to go to his MP for meal vouchers assistance. I recall when I was having this conversation in his home, I could feel how tired he was from making the constant appeals to the relevant agencies. All the assistance given and he still would not be able to save any money much less enjoy the fruits of his labor. He expressed to me in Chinese living from hand to mouth. Stereotypical arguments made by critics perhaps from the other side would go something like this. Who asked him not to work hard? I can guarantee you Mr. Tan is far from lazy. Why do I say that? Now this is how I remember his case very vividly till today. I didn't meet Mr. Tan in our conventional house visits. The first time I chanced upon him was when I was walking back from our parties headquarters. Mr. Tan was pushing cardboards late at night, picking up carboards and fell by the traffic wayside. Think about it. A man nearing his retirement age collecting carboards after his work as a cleaner during the day. being a filio son and not being able to save, not being able to retire, much less enjoy the fruits of his labor. Mr. Tan case is not an isolated incident. As we went from Bukit B to Sambawang West, a Malay Arbang came up to me and unprompted he share with me how his CPF funds has been drawn down to the point where he has become less than $500 a month. struggling to keep pace with the cost of living. The recent number of seniors that make our workforce today is about 31%. Imagine how many are struggling to retire or have to come out of retirement because of the insufficient savings. But perhaps what is most alarming is how Prime Minister Lawrence Wong plans to tackle this retirement adequacy issues. In a lean herpa interview when asked how he was he going to tackle the retirement adequacy guess what he said I quote we have to be prepared to stay employed and work longer multi-million dollar prime minister he even suggested in 2023 that a lot of people want to work because of their How do you tell that to people like Mr. Tan? How do you tell that to Singaporeans when an online poll shows 96% of people disagreeing with you? When big groups of seniors must rush for $1 dues, so much so that the police have to be called in. And when the whole nation has become so dependent on vouchers and rebates, I cannot help but wonder, is this the refreshed PAP? If it is, we are all in big trouble. My message is this. Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it. And like Gandhi once said, the true measure of any society is how it treats its most vulnerable members. 60 years has gone by for the PAP to demonstrate how they can take care of our elderly. This is where we are at now in constant survival mode. It is our duty to make sure that our parents and our generation do not repeat and suffer under the PAP's elites policies. Seniors like Mr. an have been drawing down their CPF to pay for their housing with quote unquote no cash outlay. A marketing jingle that has been used consistently by the PAP. Prime Minister Lawrence Wong even said eight years ago that our HTBs are a good store of value. But when the vice president and senior investment strategist of OCBC says, quote, "Hoping for your HCB flat to appreciate in price by the time you retire so that you can unlock value by selling the flat is not a sound strategy." You really must wonder what is Prime Minister Wong smoking. This is not only unsound as a retirement strategy, but it is also extremely unsustainable for our younger generation. Our younger generation, the generation that will be the next lifeline of Singapore, the ones that will be here to shore up our national defense in an increasingly unstable world. Today, more and more HTB flats have become price exorbitant. The number used to be 71 resale HTB flats for selling at least $1 million back in 2018. As of 2024, last year, the number has now gone up to 1,035 flats, a 14 times increase in $1 million resale HBV flats. The PAP will tell you, "Oh, these are just a minority of flats. You still can go for BTO." But what they don't tell you is that these resale flats have an influence in how new BTO flats are being priced. Sure, you can say there subsidy, but ultimately where does the subsidy come from? It certainly didn't come from NUC income cuz last I checked they wanted to sell to Alias. subsidies come from all of us taxpayers. And instead of trying to rethink the housing policy, it justifies the bulldozing of more and more forests to make way for flats in a nation where total fertility rate is plummeting. And might I remind you that the threat of a sea level rise is expected to reach our shores at a much earlier than expected pace. This will greatly impact our response to such a threat. But when any attempts made by the opposition to make housing affordable, the PAP will shut it down with common criticisms such as raiding the reserves or even populists. And who can forget the ex-sp speaker of parliament who used the word populist too strongly? We all know what happened to that guy. The PAP has been so conditioned to be profit seeking to see Singaporeans as nothing more but economic units. They can't help but totally desri disregard what Singaporeans bring to the table as a collective whole. The whole idea that if you make housing prices affordable that somehow you are raiding the reserves as we would not have sufficient investment revenue to spend for future generations is a fallacy that even they themselves have been so convinced. They failed to see that if the same amount of money had just simply remained in the hands of the people it could not only boost the retirement adequacy of our seniors people like Mr. to live out in dignity but also have the same positive effects of our economy as it will be respent by the people to create more jobs, raise incomes and generate tax revenue in the process which ultimately just ends up back in the government left and out right pocket in the PAP's favorite. The PAP has had a hard time raising the productivity over the years. It formed numerous committees using our taxpayers money. Not only did they fail, but now they are taxing you to cover for their mistake. And what do they do in return to reward you? A high population density. Telling Singaporeans that public fairs should not be tied to service levels or disruptions. to giving out fish after suggesting in parliament that university degrees should have expireies. I caution all those who are considering voting for the PAP. While the PAP is undergoing a change in leadership, 60 years of PAP rule has bred complacency and one-way narrowminded thinking. It has further entrenched the habitual tendencies of elitism. We took the pledge as Singaporeans to achieve our country's happiness, prosperity, and progress. We didn't take the pledge to surrender all those ideals away to one sole party that has formed the government for an unusually long term compared to other nations across the world. Only by sending in the STP can we begin to repair the damage that the PAP has done not only to our minds but our resolve. By voting for the SDP, we will work to safeguard your prosperity by making sure our cost of living is manageable with fiscal responsibility to protect your livelihoods while at the same time innovating to create new opportunities for our economy rather than just growing it by the size of human capital. Where the PAP has failed, the STP will succeed. Time for us to bring sanity to restore the HTB's original mission of public housing. Not just for the younger generations, but for seniors like Mr. Tan with the STP's nonopen market housing proposal. Thank you. And before I just close things off because I'm running out of time. 30 seconds. Okay. Let me just say a few good words for Dr. Chi. I've been with Dr. Chi for four years now. I have the chance to monitor and see for myself how this man performs. Every time I go out with him, I see his dedication for the residents, his commitment to serve, his commitment to protect those people like Mr. Tan who can't voice out because they are in fear that the PAP will go after people like him for his me vouchers and his assistance. Dr. Chi is the man to send into parliament. He is the person that will listen to you even if you have criticisms about his policy. He will listen to you. He will answer you. He will not back out. Let us vote for Dr. Chi in Sabong West. Let us vote for STP. Thank you everyone. Let's go and bring back for STP. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Joshua. Once again, round of a rousing applause for Joshua, please. That was his very, very, very first time on stage speaking to such a crowd. Yeah. If there's a reminder, when Dr. Chi stood in the bi-election in 2016. Graceful said that Dr. Chi is without a job. So because he's without a job, he cannot um govern or he cannot be in parliament because who is going to vote for someone without a job? So I have to remind um all of them Dr. Tree is not without a job. He's a writer. He wrote books. So for those of you who support him, this is one of his books that he's selling and this I mean he wrote and you can buy from our merchandise and this book is so apt never on bended knees and all these 30 plus years Dr. never on bended knees no matter what was thrown at him by the media, by the machinery, by his opponents. So he suffered for all of us, right, gentlemen, ladies. At the back over there, there are tentages. Today we have volunteers manning the tentages. We would really appreciate if you could purchase some of our merchandise because every cent will go to funding the team. For example, we have over here teddy bears. We also have books. We also have umbrellas. As we come on stage more often later on, you will see us selling more and more coyote for you. And if you would like to get a signature, an autograph from Dr. Chi as well, you can stay back at the end of tonight's rally and queue up nicely. Dr. Chi will certainly entertain everybody. Yeah, I me somebody over there mentioned one of the very important uh merchandise that I forgot to mention which is the what tabahan t-shirt. This is in reference this is in reference to an incident that happened back in 2008. If you would bother to Google about it you will probably find out a little more but we will not uh we will spare you the details of that first because we need to introduce sorry we found a handphone. Oh no. At the ladies uh toilet. What phone is this? Apple. It's a Apple phone. It's a Apple iPhone. It's on Star Hub uh uh Star Hub uh reception. Whoever lost your phone, you just need to donate like $10 or what you can claim it back. Okay. Anything for fundraising. Anything. H no CDC vouchers for use for here. CDC vouchers are not what we advocate over here. All right. I also just wanted to add one more quip because she mentioned about graceful mentioned about what uh unemployed and whatsoever. Ladies and gentlemen, I myself and also unemployed. In other words, a lot of us here are what we call selfmployed. Isn't it ladies and gentlemen? So what do you mean by self-employed equals not contributing to this country's GDP? I see some of my fellow artist friends out there as well shaking banners. Yeah. So, for the rest of tonight, we really appreciate your presence here. We also appreciate your cheers together. One round of very loud cheers off right now. SCP SCP Dr. Ch. Thank you very much. Thank you. And before we get off stage, we would like to introduce to you our next uh candidate who is coming on stage. He is none other than Drew Free from the H sorry from MTJRC. Jeffrey Good evening everyone. Dear brothers and sisters, uncles and aunties, can you all do me one favor? Give yourself a round of applause for coming to the rally so early in the evening. and we hope you will stay throughout until the end. Can we do that? A big thank you for welcoming the Singapore Democratic Party into your homes here in Sumawang West. And even a bigger thank you for welcoming Dr. Chi Sunjuan to your town. Now, two nights ago, Mr. Oni Kang. So, should I continue? All right. Two nights ago, Mr. Oni Kang said that Dr. quote unquote abandoned Bukit B to come to Sawang West. But we all know how Buket B SMC magically disappeared and appeared in the newly created Jurong East Buket Bato GRC. What was that again? This morning, this morning I said that there is nothing wrong with making political calculations with moving constituencies. Look who's flipping the praa. Now speaking of praa, we have met hawkers, senior citizens and youth during our walkabouts and the message is clear. Everyone's struggling, struggling to get by, making barely enough to survive. Is this really the life we want for ourselves? Do we really want that kind of life? There you go. I don't believe so too. We don't want to just survive. We want to thrive. In that same PAP rally that night, Bolan, she counted our proposals, one of which was to reduce the GST. She said that money doesn't fall from the sky. Of course, I agree. We all agree. Money doesn't come from the sky. It doesn't for us. For us, the average Singaporeans, but not for them. As for ministers, salaries shoot up like rockets, straight to the moon. Compare this, the annual salary of the US president is about $400,000 US, which is about slightly over 500,000 Singh. The annual salary of Singapore's prime minister in Singapore dollars is $2.2 million while an entry-level minister in Singapore draws a salary of $1.1 million per year. Now we say we say cut the million dollar salaries. And while we are there, while we are there, we abolish the useless mayor positions. What say you? We can use that money to help Singaporeans with more important things like healthcare, housing, education, real support where it matters because we don't need million dollar salaries to serve the people. You you want to be a servant of the people then serve. If not, step aside. We'll do the job with less pay and more heart. The Singapore Democratic Party doesn't believe in paying ourselves first. We believe in serving you first. Now let's talk about this position called mayor. Can I ask you all a simple question? Do you even know who your mayor is? Exactly. Exactly. They show up for ribbon cutings get paid six figures a year while while we are all trying to figure out how to pay our next utility bill. What a striking contrast. Now we say once again abolish that major positions. With that, we can also use that money to support the people, our seniors, our students for fun, healthcare subsidies, like I said, housing grants, mental health services because this is all about priorities. We feel your pain, your struggle, your hope. Please give us the chance to serve you. This election is about fairness, courage, and dignity. And if we can stand together tonight, believe me, we can build a better Singapore tomorrow. Vote SDP. Vote with heart. Vote for the change. Now I would like to convey some messages to the Malay community in Malay. S is warrant. Integrity, accountability, party, democratic Singapura. moral. harass Jagong Majula Singapura SDP. Thank you everyone and good night. STP STP SP. Singapore. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I implore you to possibly make a trip maybe during your toilet break also down to the tentages at the back because I would like to implore you to purchase some merchandise. For example, an umbrella over here that will come in quite handy if you are going to join many many of our next few days. Jesus rallies, right? polling agent um sign up for volunteer. So as a as a party we do need more volunteers not just for our activities which we are more than welcome to join as well. We also need polling agents specifically specifically registered for next Saturday 3rd of May when we have the elections every single voting center we will need at least one representative and that will be our polling agent down there. So I think we need we need four right of depending on how many polling uh desk they have. I mean every center at least one but within one GRC there will be many right we need we need a lot of uh polling agents. So please come and help us especially the residents of the constituency that we are standing that will be nearer to your house as well. Yeah. So come and help us sign up to find out more information on how many polling agent we need our volunteers behind will be more than willing to answer all your questions. Okay. Thank you very much. So our next candidate coming up on stage will be Gigin Wong. Jigin shared with me earlier that one of her hobbies is actually hiking. And so, can we welcome her as she hikes on stage together into a brand new future for everybody out here? Yes. Let's welcome Dr. Jing Wong. Uncle, auntie for Governments sectors. Okay. Fore country. Public civil servant. Public civil servant. Public civil servant, member of the parliament. Foreign woman, member of parliament. fight. More parliament. Fight fight. Okay. Uh woman be m Okay. Governments, government, public civil servant, MPC Okay. My walk over. Walk over. My Ah. Um, UT 5year master planear plan master land near Mr. Master, green, shopping center. Five year master plan. Five year master plan. Prime Minister Lauren Wong, BAP, Mr. Lawrence budget budget. Okay. Okay. MP. MP. Company directors. Company directors. sidelines. Okay. Parliament. problem. Example, GST voucher complaint complaint. Okay. Walk over. Marine. Wow. Fore speech. for elephant. Elephant Our future singer future singer elephant Fore woman. Woodland stadium tracking track. Lauren Hong Kong. Fight very hard. foreign. Okay. voucher but okay. So do please vote for SVP on this coming Saturday of May. Once again, I bring on stage a smaller version of a bear. We have various uh versions of this bear from the small to the medium to the large and they are all available at the back because all of these merchandise will go a long way to supporting the SDP in our NDE to get into parliament to support and represent you guys and we also need a lot of polling agent. So one like masling UT polling uh center we need about 160 polling agent. Um the Sambawang team we need about 150 polling agent. So please sign up as our polling a agent especially the residents of Sambawang and Masling UT. Please sign up as a polling agent. To find out more information please go to our volunteers. And tomorrow, I think there is uh the office will be open from 11:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. for you to sign up and our commissioner of oath will be there. So, we do need you to physically make your way down to our office in order for you to do the registration because there will be a commissioner of oaths over there. I can also I mean I can also share that I also was a volunteer for a polling agent 5 years ago and that was in Buket And it's very touching when you are on duty representing the team that you really passionately and fervently support just to see how it resonates with the people coming in streaming in hour by hour. Yes. And you know our polling agent, our candidates are also working very hard and during the polling days they will actually be the one going around sending lunch and dinner to all our polling agent appreciating all our polling agent for their efforts because we take nobody for granted. We really appreciate all of your help. Yes, it's going to be um fun because you get up close and personal in how this whole polling uh works and which is why I must remind you all voting is secret. It's definitely definitely secret. I think one of our candidates Arifin has also made a video to share about how secret it can be. Yeah. So don't be afraid to vote for us. Don't be afraid to vote our 11 candidates to parliament on the 3rd of May. But you know Justin, I can share with you something that is not so secret. What do you think is one of the favorite hobbies of our next candidate elector? He says that he loves to play majong with his parents. Anybody else who here play majong please? But for Lawrence Wong, Lawrence Wong to insinuate that we in the opposition all over are gambling with your lives, that is quite far-fetched kind of fear-mongering, isn't it? So ALEC is very very much serious about reformative change here for you, for me and for Singapore. Everybody, Mr. Alec talk SVP Musling UT team. It's okay. She's yo yo yo sh Okay. Okay. the CNA. Core. Why? for woman. forchech. the white. The woman Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Foreign Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Fore woman. Soldiers. for woman. How foreign speech. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Foreign speech. Foreign foreign foreign speech. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore speech. woman. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Foreign speech. Foreign foreign foreign speech. I worry for for Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. woman. woman. Woman Spotify. woman. War. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore woman. Foreign speech. Foreign foreign foreign speech. Tom Chandler woman. SDP, SDP, SDP, And so if you look left, you look right, you look behind, and all around, what do you see? Yes, you see SDP, you see three generations of families coming. But we must ask ourself why. Why are there children even here? Why are there elderly braving the difficulties just to come here squeeze together with everybody just to soak in the atmosphere only? No. It's simply because we are all the same, isn't it? We face the same issues of cost of living. We face the same issues of weddings and marriages. We face the same issues of housing, isn't it? And so these are issues that men in ivory towers can't possibly imagine. Don't you think all so? Yeah. And so if they keep saying that we are complaining society, why don't we show them what kind of complaint we are capable of making? Yeah. And once again, there is more merchandise at the back at the contentious over there. I have over here even just a small little clapper because I don't have enough hands to clap. So I need this and I believe a lot of you may need this as well as you make more noise tonight. And now I leave it to you to introduce our next speaker. Wow. So, the next speaker coming up on stage is James. James Gomez. James just shared with me backstage. Uh, some of you already know him over there. James says he has been studying intently. This very famous Chinese painting of eight horses. Anybody of you know the eight horses? Some of you don't know, but some of you may have seen them before in those grand officers. Maybe some of the officers that belong to the white. Yeah, because you know somebody from the white, Mr. O is said that he's bringing his horses down to Sambawang GRC. What do you think about that? And so he wants to know how as an inferior human being we can squeeze with this royal horses in an already crammed sawang. What do you think of that again? But on a more serious note, these horses actually mirror the aspirations that the SVP has for all of you from life and career, from children and health, personal development, marriage, education and happiness. And do you know J uh Jasine what the red horse the red horse stands for? Anybody else here knows the red horse stands for strength and courage. So before we invite the next candidate on stage, can you all chant together with me? Dr. James Thomas. Lango, Japan, SDP, SDP SDP SDP SDP. You come to Samawang, you bring the horses. SCP Ba Saboang residents, friends, neighbors, thank you for being here today. Today I ask you to draw a line. A line between what the PAP calls town development versus what you really want. a line between town development decisions made for you versus decisions made by you. the line between the PAP passing off and politicizing national development plans for self-promotion and electioning purposes versus genuine groundup ideas that put the people of Samawang and Singaporeans first. With this beginning, the Sambawang GRC team is proud to launch today, tonight, the Singapore Democratic Sambawang Town GRC Plan. The plan will act as a nucleus calibrated through town hall discussions with you and also serve as an outline for all the other constituencies in SDP's northern strategy. We call the plan putting the heart in the heartland. Show me your heart. Show me your heart. The implementation of the plan is our commitment to you. Communitydriven vision that re-imagines how we live, work, connect, and care for one another in this place we all call home. But for too long, planning in Sambawang has not been done with us. It has been done to us. Just before the elections, every elections we see the PAP mentioning the opening of new MRT stations. They will talk about national HDB upgrading plans. They will highlight elements of the URRA master plan. All of these and other national plans are done to create an impression that is the PAP that is doing all this with a view for claiming credit. Nothing can be further from the truth. Meanwhile, the in the last two elections, Sbawang residents have continued to face a set of unresolved issues from cluttered corridors and stairwells, water runoffs and flooding caused by heavy rains. You know this amenities development being unresponsive to the changing demographics of Sabawang. Looking out for the needs of the elderly young people and young families. Overcrowding in common areas such as around MRT trains and very very dirty public toilets and the list goes on. These ignored concerns have made neighborhoods in Sambawang feel like concrete columns to which people scurry to after a hard day's work and caregiving responsibilities to be by themselves without the support of a wider community. It's a pity that the PAP town management has turned Sambawang into this. With the STP, there is a better way forward. A way that puts people, not the self centered PAP politics of reelection, at the heart of town development. The SDP's way or we like to call it the people's way recognizes that infrastructure alone without the inclusion of the community or the heart is meaningless for STP. A town is more than concrete and corridors. It's about community dignity and shared purpose. So what are we proposing? First, we are going to fix the basics. Things that have been broken, delayed, or promised for years without action. You should not still be walking in rain because sheltered pathways that were in the pipeline 5 years ago are still in the pipeline. You should not be gathering at temporary bus stops that continue to be temporary. Floodprone areas, especially near playgrounds, walkways, and lift landings. How dangerous is that? Should not be pawning every time there is rain. Rains should not be coming into your corridor, hitting your door and entrance and seeping into your home. You not be subjected to overcrowded feeder buses during peak times. Last mile connectivity should not still be an afterthought in 2025. These are not new issues. These are just unresolved ones ignored by PAP's aljunate abandoning abandoning and sbawang paris shooting on Kang and his team. By electing SDP MPs, you will have these issues resolved firmly. Your SDP MPs will also organize regular town hall meetings to gather your feedback. Even if there are difficult requests, even if you are difficulty in sharing these requests, we will do our best to resolve them. We will not be like oni kang ignoring you, avoiding you just because you raise difficult concerns. The STP town plan is based on the feedback of Sabawang residents. It is now my pleasure to present the following ideas from the residents. One, introduce a bike management storage system that will keep your bicycles secure and sheltered from the weather. It will be integrated with a bicycle care service to ensure your bicycles are always good in good working order and safe. Two, we will introduce under the block storage spaces to encourage corridors and stairwells to be kept clutter-free and comfortable for passage. The storage facilities can also include lockers to receive your online packages. Three, we will create co-working spaces with Wi-Fi, air conditioning, and ample sitting area. Whether it's for quiet study, new ways of working or for small groups of discussion, so that you can be comfortable and enjoy the new ways of studying, learning and collaborating together. Four, we will identify and install more sitting areas in accessible locations, armrest, back rests for added support, ramps and shelters, especially to help our elderlys have a comfortable rest stop and be out in the open. Five, we will push for lifts on all major overhead bridges that still lack them. Seniors, persons with disabilities, or parents with strollers will particularly see and enjoy the benefits of this suggestion. Six, we will open mindfulness and wellness centers for youth and working adults alike. So you can find the support when you have stress. These spaces will serve as a welcoming environment where people can go connect, reflect, and feel heard. Seven, and I've already got three more. We will launch community and nature mapping and documenting projects of green spaces in Sambawang. This is to ensure that the area's natural environment is not eroded by unchecked development and callous planning. Eight, we will demand action from the relevant agencies to keep our coastal waters clean. They are very highly polluted now. We will track these agencies, monitor the pollution levels in the water and get them to hold accountable those who pollute our clean waters. Last but not least, we will support those who work to care for our stray cats, dogs, and other wildlife. We will provide microchipping initiatives, a community care fund, animal welfare, education and campaigns, and promote empathy and coexistence with our nature, animals, and fellow human beings. reminder, all these proposals came from you the residents and have one simple principle that a town must be people centric that a town belongs to its residents not to the PAP real estate political portfolio. Unlike Oni Kang who just before this election tried to pass off the URA master plan for Sambawang as the PAP. The STP does not take national or public project. Slap a PAP SDP label on it and call it its own. No, we don't do that. We believe in real participation where the town plan is a product of you the residents. That's why the SDP will organize regular town halls across all our constituency in the northern strategy. These town halls will be an opportunity for residents to voice ideas and provide feedback to your SDP MPs so that the SDP MPs can implement a plan that the people really want. If you want a town plan and MPs that will work for you, vote SDP. both SDP MPs. Once again, the Sabawang GRC team is pleased to officially launch the SDP Sabawang GRC town plan. Putting your heart in the heartland. A plan for you. a plan by you. It is just SDP's pleasure and honor to facilitate this for this for you. Once again, SDP bobping. Okay. So if you're feeling a little bit hot, you can also purchase for yourself one of these fans from once again our tentages at the back and all these will go very much into funding the team. Uh the next candidate coming up on stage will be Brian. Very quickly introducing Brian. He is an ardent supporter of the national football team of Singapore. Because as opposed to some who only appear to take selfies with our national athletes only when they win, Brian has been supporting the national football team through its downs and ups. And so here he is pledging to do the same for all of you in Sambawang GRC. Mr. Brian Lynn. Dear residents of Sambang West, supporters of the STP, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of those who are watching at home, let's make some noise. My friends, for too long we've been told to keep our heads down, to stay silent and accept things as they are. But let me ask you, is this a Singapore we dream of? A Singapore where hard work doesn't guarantee the home. A Singapore where the elderly worry about health care costs. A Singapore where children's future is way down by death before they even start their careers. My friends, the time has come for real change. The time has come for you to draw courage over comfort, conviction, over confidence, convenience for leader who will fight tooth and near for your rights. And that leader is none other than Dr. the chief. For 30 years, Dr. Chi has stood up when others have remained silent. He has spoken nothing but the truth when others have whispered in corners. Do you know he holds an unofficial Guiney's book of records to have been sued by three former prime ministers? Mr. Lee Guan Yu calls him a congenital liar. Is that right? Mr. Gokong labels him as a political gangster. Do you agree with him? Mr. Lisian Long, like his father, says he's a serial liar. Is that true? They bankrupted him. They jerked him. They tried to silence him. They call him every name in the book. Gangster, liar, troublemaker. But why, my friends? Why does the BP do that? You're right. because he's the man they fear. Fear not for himself but for your awakening. Dear residents of Sambang West, it's time to show them it's time for you to choose courage, not fear. Dr. has endured persecution, sacrifice and hardship not for himself but for you, for us for Sable. struggles of the everyday Singaporean who has walked in your shoes, felt the weight of rising cost, the stress of healthcare bills, the fear of an uncertain future. Certainly not the multi-millionaire ministers whose gardens are bigger than your house. Certainly not a minister who tells you not to complain about $5 bowl of one time meat. My friends, Dr. Chi doesn't just talk, he lives it. He He doesn't just promise, he fights for it. While others has chosen the easy path, Dr. T has chosen the right path. He doesn't just talk about justice. He fights for it. He doesn't complain about inequality. He stands against it. And most importantly, he doesn't just dream of democracy. He sacrifices for it. The PAP will tell you, "Hey guys, be grateful. Stay quiet. Don't rock the boat." You know what they actually mean? They actually mean that don't roll don't rock their cruiser so that they can continue to collect their big fat salaries while you scrap the bottom of your barrel. My friends, now let me ask you, does gratitude mean silence? Does loyalty mean blind obedience? No. Do you still want white sheep in parliament who vote collectively to increase the GST not once but twice? You still want white sheep benches who fall asleep in parliament because no need to debate with their own kind. Dear friends, let me ask you some honest questions. Who speaks up for you in parliament today? When prices go up? Who fights for you? When jobs are uncertain, who stands with you? When your concerns are ignored, who shouts for you? The PBMPs, they told the party line, they nod, they smile, they stay silent, and they even sleep. But Dr. Tree, he rose. When he gets to parliament, he will challenge the wasteful spending. He will demand affordable healthcare. You will fight for your rights, not their privileges. I urge the residents of Sambong West to vote for Dr. chief will be that lionhearted MP who will roar for justice, for fairness, for your rights. Dr. Chi doesn't want your fear. He wants your hope. He doesn't want your submission. He wants your strength. In fact, he wants to carry your hopes, dreams, and aspirations into parliament. We need an MP who doesn't just show up at election time, but shows up every day for you. We don't need MPs who hand out ice cream and fish before the elections, but an MP who hands you back your dity. My friends, most importantly, we need MP who doesn't serve the system but serve the people. My friends, this election is not just about votes. It's about voices. Your voice, your family's voice, the voice of the hawker, the cleaner, the retirey, the young graduate struggling to buy a house. This election is about hope. Hope for the man on the streets who struggling with the rising cost of living. Hope for the children who are suffering from the mental stress. Hope for the elderly who cannot retire in comfort. So, it's time to say enough is enough. We don't need more yes men in parliament. We need a man who will say yes to you. Residents of Sambang West, the choice is clear. You want MP will work for you, not just watch you struggle. F for Dr. Chunan. You want an MP who fights in parliament like a tiger, not sleep like a puppet. Vote for Dr. Chun. If you want to live with dignity and thrive, not just survive, vote for Dr. If you believe that Singapore deserves better, that you will deserve better, then stand with me. Stand with Dr. G and let's make history together on May the 3. My friends, the future starts now. The power is in your hands. Let's bring real change to Sambaw Sambong West. Let's bring real change to Singapore. Dr. your voice, your fighter, your MP on May the 3. Vote for for courage for for change. Thank you everyone. SP SDP Dr. Tree Dr. G SP Dr. Tree Dr. Oh, justine somebody sorry Brian mentioned Brian just now mentioned about someone whose garden is bigger than our house. That's not exactly correct. It's actually bigger than three of this field that we are all here squeezed together, isn't it? But since we're all here already together, let us be part of this sea of red as we pass our bowls of hope to you for a better future across and with everybody. Hey, help us roll our ball. Roll our 11 candidates to parliament so that we have all your hands as part of one Singapore. Those holding the flag, please be careful. Don't burst our Yeah. Do avoid puncturing it with your sharp objects like your flag pulls. Yes. Roll our ball. Roll our 11 candidates to parliament. By the end of tonight, everybody's hands must have touched the balls. Okay, we need some instruction. Those the ball go from behind. Come back to the front. Yeah. Don't pass the ball to the the the school over there. We cannot take it out. What? So you say that's like they're having a lot of fun. Now make sure as I said everyone's hand should have at least touched the ball once, maybe twice, multiple times. Touch the ball. Roll the ball and roll our 11 candidates to Parliament on the 3rd of May. Remember, your vote is secret. Don't be afraid to vote for SDP. And at the same time, since some of you already are whipping out your phones, feel free to take selfies with a quick snap of the ball coming near to you. Thank you everyone for your cooperation. We shall now introduce our next speaker. However, Jasine, the next speaker needs no introduction. every single day videos and videos of him interviews online as well. Okay. So for the balls as well I was told you can pass the balls around but eventually it has to end somewhere at the back so that our staff will come and help to collect. Okay. Now, we need all your scream, all your whistle because he's also another candidate that needs to be in parliament. Dr. Paul Hello everyone. I'm so happy to be here tonight to speak with you and in particular in support of our candidate for Simbong West SMC, Dr. Chi Sundran. I do not need to tell you, but he's a truly unique individual. He's probably one of only two politicians in Singapore who can be described as conviction politicians. I'll be honest, the rest of us are actually probably a bit more of a pragmatic politicians. The other one is Dr. Chanting Bob whose 85th birthday I had the privilege of celebrating this morning in Tiban Gardens. Exactly. He wished for PSP in parliament and SDP in parliament. Very few of us will want to be walking the ground trying to persuade people to vote for us when we are 85 years old after a long career as an MP, as a doctor, and a businessman. But Dr. Chi's career has had a very different trajectory. Whoa. Careful, careful, careful. Don't knock off. Okay. This way. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. So Dr. Chi's career has had a very different trajectory. He got his PhD in neurossychology from one of the top universities in the United States and returned and very quickly built up a reputation in the field. My aunt who was a educational psychologist herself and was active in the profession spoke very highly of of him all the way into her 198 into her 80s. Unfortunately for him, unfortunately for the discipline, but fortunately for Singaporeans, in 1992, Dr. Chi decided to get involved in politics. Of course, the rest is history. He was caught up in some of the changes in the SDP, which you can read about in Loko Young's book that has been distorted completely by the PAP in this preocial media era. And there were many people including many of my family and friends who thought that Dr. Chi was some crazy guy. In 2013, I remember I I brought my wife for lunch with Dr. Chi and we went to the Pinang place in uh one north and I'll never forget this. As I was leaving the place, my wife said to me, "He's a normal person." I said, "Of course he's a normal person." But she said, "If you believe what the PAP politicians tell you and what the media tells you, you think he's a psychopath." For many Singaporeans though, the turning point was the general election in 2015. That was when Sunjan was finally allowed to speak to the public unfiltered. I remember the most striking moment was the rally at Commonwealth when he spoke in four languages and three dialects. you know, he hadn't been allowed to speak for almost 10 years, so that's why he just had to let go. Two images that stick to my mind were before the general election, he was standing outside a MRT station selling his books and people crossed by on the other side. After during the general election, in one of the rallies, there were people who queued up for 300 meters all the way around this field just to get him to sign the book. Some of them waited one and a half hours. What made the difference? I think it was social media because that gave uh Singaporeans the chance to to get the word out that Dr. Chi truly believes in a better Singapore for everyone. He also has the personality and the talent to make that happen. And hopefully on May the 3, you residents of Sambawang West will give him a chance to prove this through your votes. Now I would like to address some of the issues brought up by the PAP in the last couple of days. First of all, there's this politician who abandoned Aljunit for Sbawang and then he decided to stop talking about his colleagues who abandoned Pongol for Temp, abandoned Aljunit for Bukat, abandon Aljunit again for Angmoko, abandoned Chukang for Pongul and so on and so forth. I think you know who I'm talking about. So he said he wants to move on. You know that's what the PAP says when they got nothing more to say. They just want to move on to the next topic, right? And get to the real issues of the campaign. There's another issue that was brought up this morning and that was the issue of foreign interference and I want to make it very clear the SDP is totally against any kind of foreign interference in elections in Singapore. You know, this was brought up recently when a foreigner living in Singapore wrote an article which might have an impact on the foreign affairs in Singapore. And nobody would have thought anything of this article until it was actually highlighted by the wife of our senior minister. Now, she is a very powerful person, one of the most powerful people in the world, powerful women in the world. And in fact, she's so powerful that none of us knows her salary. So while we believe that foreigners are free to write about their opinions and perspectives about Singapore, um they should not try to interfere in the domestic and foreign affairs of our country. The prime minister also called for an end to identity politics and said that we should not be a divided people. I totally agree with that. In fact, in a recent video, I called for the CMIO kind of classification to be scrapped. It's totally meaningless when one in five Singaporeans is married to someone from a different race, including me. It was actually introduced by the colonial authorities as a means to divide and rule the people of Singapore. Terrible, right? It is also exclusionary because it excludes certain communities like the Arabs, the Armenians, and the Jews who have contributed significantly to Singapore's history and current present. The ethnic self-help groups are also unnecessarily divisive and they lead to duplication and disproportionate allocation of resources. It is high time for the PM to walk the talk and get rid of the CMIO classification. Cherion George put it very well as he explained how the so-called fault lines in in Singapore society are generally portrayed as being between the people, the different ethnic groups, the different religious groups, etc. rather than between the ruler and the rule. And that is where the true fault lines really are. And this happened during the colonial era and has continued during the PAP era. More importantly, there have been major issues raised by the PAP about the living wage proposals made by the SDP and other parties. Former senior civil servant Jeffrey Xiao called the minimum wage a political rather than a practical solution. and he preferred the so-called progressive wage model which gives certain uh workers uh the right to a basic wage provided they meet certain strict criteria. Miss Gansawang said that the minimum wage is an easy way out. I'm not so sure why the PAP is so enamored of complicated solutions, but frankly having a li guaranteed living wage no matter what people do is one sure way to ensure that a job in Singapore provides at least the basic essentials for our families. It also ensures that there's fair competition with foreigners for jobs and that migrant workers are not exploited simply because they're willing to work for lower wages. Just last year, we heard about a bus company that was offering up to $5,000 in starting pay for bus drivers. And you know what? They attracted 1,300 Singaporeans to apply for 20 to 30 jobs. So that just proves that Singaporeans are not picky. We just want a job that provides a living wage that can support our families. The STP has campaigned for a living wage for the last 20 years. We've been told that it will cause widespread unemployment. But actually, you know what? The PAP has employed the progressive wage model, which is actually a minimum wage in disguise. But there has not been widespread unemployment. So tonight, for the bulk of my me message, I'm going to talk to you about the third pillar of SDP's manifesto, which is respect for our planet. So T is taxes, H is healthcare, R is respect for our planet. And this refers to climate change. Many people think that climate change is some airy fairy idea dreamed up by academics trying to preserve their jobs. But the reality is that climate change is happening around us. And we cannot deny it even if we try to. Last year 2024 was the hottest year on record in Singapore since they started recording temperatures. It tied with one of the earlier years in this century. And this effect of climate change is quite significant. In my own field, uh rises in temperature around us, environmental temperature can increase dangers to human health. For example, cold-blooded insects such as mosquitoes can live longer and can bite us more and spread diseases when it's only one or two degrees hotter than usual. While the exact contribution of human efforts and human ef human human activity to climate change is debatable, there's no question that if you continue to burn fossil fu fuels, you are literally adding fuel to the fire that's burning our planet. So, in our climate change paper, we call on the government to accelerate the transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy. And this should be done in a long-term and sustainable way through stopping the investment in coal burning facilities which unfortunately is still going on with the recent funding of a coal fired nickel plant in the neighboring country. We also call for an accelerated transition for Singapore from a heavily oil and gas dependent economy to one which becomes a regional leader in renewables. We have the technology, we have the human capital, that's you to make this possible. Now, while investments in the National Research Foundation led by former DPM Hangat are commendable, much more needs to be done. And it needs to be done from a ground up rather than a top-down approach. And this is in line with our long-standing history of calling for basic human rights, freedom of expression which recognize the rights of every individual and not just the wealthy and elite. So we call for empowering local communities to take the initiative develop and promote the use of renewable energy. We also call for the pres preservation of our green spaces. They're rewing efforts which are underway. But the relentless quest by the PAP to increase our population to some mysterious target which they refuse to say is caused the destruction of the Tangga forest, the destruction of significant parts of the Clemente and Dova forest and even the large swades of the cranji forest just around just nearby. So removing the green lungs of the city will have an adverse effect not just on the air that we breathe but also on our mental health and well-being. So we call for a moratorum on all forest uh cutting activity including the secondary forest as well as for the environmental impact analysis to be taken seriously. We have only one planet and one tiny island nation. We need to work together as one people regardless of race, language, or religion to protect what we have been given to be good stewards of what we have to ensure that we do not allow the destructive forces of the fossil fuel industry to literally consume us to death. We owe it to future generations. Many of us think that all these things will happen after we're long gone. But it is the children to whom the future belongs. That is certainly not the Singaporean way. And it is definitely not the SDP way. as we want a Singapore where everyone can thrive and babies can grow up in a world not just surviving the coming climate crisis but thriving. Vote for change. Vote for the SDP. Thank you, Dr. P. You know, Dr. reminded us that it was Dr. Tan Chenbok's uh birthday today. So, why not you join us? Let's give Dr. Tan gift. Don't we don't allow um PAP to divide and rule. We are friends with our fellow opposition. So, join me. Let's give Dr. Tanch a gift by joining us and wish him happy birthday. Join me. Come on. Happy birthday, Dr. Happy birthday. Happy birthday, Dr. Thank you very much. Now, ladies and gentlemen, once again, at the end of today also, the tentages will be still available. I will implore you to purchase any of our merchandise including books like this saying it starts with a dream and it always starts with a dream but it always ends in reality for all of us and I hope by 3rd of May you all will see we all will see the kind of reality that we want to see isn't it and this book the author will be our next speaker. And so the man, the people's champion, Dr. Dr. G. FC. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you so much. Admiral. No. Three. No. Four. F. F is for fantastic. What's that? Secondary for this home. forch. forfe. eBay, Mr. Lawrence Wong CDC vouchure. Yeah. Present. woman bus% gas N US, NTU, SMU, doies, town council, GST%. for CDC vouchure PAP. PP% Wait a P. How about Mr. Oh, because of strategy. forchech. It's a team. Thank you. All right, ladies and gentlemen, a slight a technical difficulty but uh give us a few minutes to sort it out. Once again, can we give a sh turn on STP? SP Dr. T SP All right, ladies and gentlemen, give us a few seconds just to adjust the teleprompter. But meanwhile, I just want to implore you because I see already a half sea of red outside there. However, tomorrow, tomorrow, we would like to see more red from you guys. Shall we do that tomorrow? It's at the Sun Plaza hardcore just outside the Sun Plaza. Yeah. So at the same time while you are waiting some of you perhaps are already very near the tentage over there. So perhaps you might like to scoot over there purchase some merchandise that can help once again the SDP team for our fundraising campaign and also please buy a book or two uh Dr. Tree books to show your support to him and again we need volunteers for polling agent. Okay, please sign up for polling agent. And now we will give the stage to Dr. Chi. Once again, Dr. Chi, thank you again one and all. Now before they announced the boundaries in this election, many people told me that Buket Bat would not exist as an MC SMC. It would be drawn redrawn into a GRC. I thought to myself at that time that this was there was a possibility just a possibility but nonetheless I was hoping that this wouldn't happen looking back I guess it was just wishful thinking I was in a dilemma I knew that the harder I worked in Buket B the greater the likelihood hood that it would disappear into a GRC but I could not I couldn't not give my best in book and so in the years in between elections I continued to work there no regrets absolutely none but when the new boundaries Thank you for when the new bound boundaries were announced last month. I remember it was on a Tuesday. Brian called me up at 2:00 and said, "Dr. Chi, you know they're going to be releasing the report in Parliament at 3:00." And so I waited at precisely 3:00. Went to the website. My eyes went straight to the list and was looking for booketto SMC. And sure enough, it was no longer after nine years. After nine years immersing myself and establishing a bond with a community there, I'd be lying if I told you that I didn't feel the pain of seeing the constituency disappear. Through the years, I had fought for the residents on municipal issues mainly to do with safety matters that I found absolutely appalling. For example, electrical boxes on lamposts were rusted out and opened with wires exposed. And the worst part was that these lampost were situated right next to the playground. I also facilitate a petition among residents to construct a footpath otherwise pedestrians would have to walk on the road itself which posed obvious dangers. Sure enough, sure enough on a Sunday morning I went down where people were walking to the market and there was a grandmother holding the hand of her little girl and they were walking along the road. A car came along and stopped just in time. The mother grandmother got a fright and pulled the little girl away. I caught this all on camera. It's on my Facebook. But the most egregious case was a fire that broke out in 2019 in one of the flats. It happened in the middle of the night. I visited the block early the following morning and when the residents saw me the first thing they said to me was from afar they shouted to me no water no water so I went up to the floor where the fire had broken out 13th floor and discovered that the hose drill cabinet was padlocked a resident had broken the lock but when they pulled out the hose there was no water. As a result, the fire raged on and the occupants in that flat, three of them, one Amma Akong and this the son who was grown-up son, the fire got so bad they had to climb out through the wind uh kitchen window on the 13th floor. They purged themselves on the outside of the flat. The fire engine came, SCDF engine came, raised the ladder and brought them down. But the mother couldn't come out. She stayed in the flat and she died. I wrote to the Jurong Clemente Town Council to ask for answers. SCEDF subsequently conducted an investigation and determined that the safety codes were indeed violated, were broken. After several days, the PMP the PAP MP there, Mr. Murali Pelle finally came out to apologize over the incident and it turned out that the host real cabinet was padlocked because they didn't want it to be vandalized and the town council staff had failed to turn the water back on after some washing operation. a surviving the surviving family member then got in touch with me and was interested in engaging a lawyer to see what could be done and so I found him a lawyer but when I replied to him to tell him who to contact he didn't reply me anymore as the years went by my team and I got more and more involved in the community in Buket Bat and we rented a small office space on top of one of the blocks above McDonald's. We organized dinners and gettogethers, conducted holiday activities for students, held enrichment classes for needy children, gave out burseries to lower income families, and even got a sponsor to build a wheelchair access ramp for an elderly resident. None none of the money came from public funds. We raised all the money ourselves to conduct these activities. Everything I did, everything my team conducted through the years are chronicled in my Facebook for all to witness. It was nine years. Nine years of painstaking hard work. Then without explanation, they arbitrarily took everything that I had worked for. It went up in a political fire that afternoon. I was helpless. I could only watch as I saw all my work going up in flames. Tell me, my friends, if you were me, how would you feel? So you can imagine how I felt when Mr. Angi Kung and Miss Poli son asked me to explain why I abandon book. You don't work at a place for nearly a decade, put in your heart and your soul and not feel it when they rip it from under you. But the truth is I've not left Buket B. Part of me is still there and will always be there. I know every block, every coffee shop, every basketball court there. I think I know Buket Bau even better than Mr. Morali himself. Mr. Ang and Miss Po knew full well that that booket bat SMC had been eradicated and yet they thought nothing of taking these cheap shots at me. And yesterday Mr. Alex Yam has jumped into the fray and piled it on saying that I had broken my promise and then just to find it curious Mr. who is in simbaang s in Sambawang GRC and Mr. Yam who is in Maseling UT are so interested in coming to contest in Sambawang West with Miss Po. But in all seriousness, I ask the three of them to stop this nonsense. Don't let sink into gutter polocks again, please. You're all better than that. Elections are a time when parties present their policies and platforms and then persuade the people for support. Sure. Sure. We'll criticize each other, but we criticize each other's ideas and policies, not persons. In all my years of politics, I have stayed away from engaging in personal attacks against my opponents. I didn't do it with Mr. Morali in book and I don't intend to start now with Miss Paul. When I first bumped into Miss Paul Lisan at Woodlands Mart, we greeted each other and we exchanged pleasantries. She came across as rather affable and that impression hasn't changed. I may disagree with her on her stance on certain issues, but I don't let that disagreement straight into my views of her as a person. And so I was quite surprised when she made those remarks about me, questioning my sincerity, saying that I spent only one month in Sawang West and that I hadn't done quote unquote real work in the constituency. This is hitting below the belt and unworthy of a good election contest. Why didn't she say the same about a colleague when he left Aljunit to come to Simba? Not to mention some of the others who jumped from the east to the west and then back again. And there's another side to this type of campaigning, ladies and gentlemen. youngest Singaporeans, many of whom are youths and may not be able to vote yet, but they are watching. When they see one side burning down the house of their opponent and then accuse him of running away, how do you explain to them that moral values matter when they run? When these youths run for counselors or prefects or student leaders, is the message to them do anything, say anything to get elected? What's the point of having moral education there? How do MPs project moral leadership and be role models for these young people? It is that kind of silliness that puts people off polit politics. Again, I urge Mr. Mr. Yam, Miss Paul to have some respect for the electoral process and to demonstrate the decorum and ethical rectitude befitting of a general election. I want to ask them to turn their attention back to the issues that the voters here in Sambawang West and the rest of Singapore really care about. The high cost of living, unemployment opportunities, job security and so on. In fact, I would like to invite Mr. and Miss Pole to have breakfast with me tomorrow at Woodland Smart and let's talk over a cup of copi about how we can better the residents to improve their lives instead of continuing with what they're doing. Voters expect better from them. Let's show to Singaporeans the best side of politics and the best side of our parties. Elections are a serious and solemn exercise of the people's choice of who they want as the members of parliament and candidates should comport themselves to the occasion. And so after I made the decision to contest in Sambawong West, my team and I wasted no time in getting the word out on the morning of 23rd of March on a Sunday when I announced my candidacy here. The entire team SDP spread out across the constituency and in one morning distributed to every single household. my introductory flyer. I repeat, we covered the whole of Sawang West with our flyers in one morning. That is quite a feat even if I say so myself. And I want to thank my election agent Irene Tay for the meticulous planning and the diligent execution of the entire operation. But that was only just the beginning. I still wanted to visit all of you at home. That same team now knuckled down and went around the different blocks and visited every single one of the units in every single block. And this was done in less than three weeks. It was another amazing achievement. I don't have to tell you how proud I am of them. I personally couldn't cover all the blocks because of the limited time, but they dedicated themselves to the task and visited all of you in the 108 blocks in Sambawang West. No money, no money can buy that kind of dedication and passion. I have no free car park to give them, no cushy jobs in the government companies to offer them. They work on pure passion and the desire to get me into parliament. They have my eternal gratitude. But I want to tell all my Sambawang West friends, please forgive me if I haven't found my way to visiting you at home yet. I will continue to do as much as I can in the little time that I have left in this election. But by now, you will have received a third flyer from my team, and there will be another one in the coming days. I tell you the work that we do and the organizational strength of team SCP because I want you to know that we will bring that same competence, that same dedication, that same passion when we manage the Sambawang West Town Council. Not only will we match the PAP's level of management, but we will surpass it. Mr. Ang says that Sambawang West will be a lonely island. On the contrary, Mr. on. Instead of a lonely island, Sbawang West will thrive and will become an oasis of community caring. Team SVP will see to that. We will transform this constituency into a living, breathing community of hearts and hands, a beacon for the rest of Singapore to follow. And who knows, Mr. might even want his Sambawang Town Council to be managed by team SDP in the future. This estate is much more than just a set of streets and multi-story car parks. By the time I'm done with this town, it will be a community where no one feels alone, where neighbors smile and greet each other, where care for your neighborhood is not outsourced, but personalized every day in every corner by every single one of us in team SDP. I want laughter, not cold concrete. I want warm hearts, not passionless stairs. You see, ladies and gentlemen, we don't need to wait for permission to care. We just need the will and each other. Singapore has become an island where we know the price of everything but the value of nothing. Somewhere along the way in the last 60 years, we lost the ability to care, the ability to be compassionate. Somehow caring for one another has become a dirty word. We are constantly told that no one owes us a living and there's no such thing as a free lunch. We've lost our soul. That very quality that makes us human. Well, I intend to change that. Starting with some Bang West. But to do that, you will need more, much, much more than a part-time MP. You need someone here every day to hear you, to listen to you, to be that voice that speaks out your deepest worries and your highest aspirations. I will be that MP, that full-time MP who is not just your representative but your friend and your confidant. And I make you this pledge, voters at Simbang West, that I will not outsource the running of your town council to a third party profit-making company because that is what the present PAP MPs are doing. This will have two effects. One, you will have my personal attention and care. And two, the town council will cut down on operating costs by not having to pay the managing agents fee. We will directly employ capable professionals who have the heart for Sbawang West rather than let the managing company choose their own staff who may or may not care about the estate. Of course, we will have the regular meet the people sessions. I hear that residents wanting to see the MP must now wait for about 2 to three hours. I'm shocked. Do the MPs think they are some kind of rock stars. We will try to arrange it so that you won't have to waste so much time queuing up just to speak to me. On top of this meet the people sessions, I will also conduct town hall meetings so that we can discuss issues and policies that affect you and your family. Anything and everything from health care costs to your children's education to mental health support. We will organize such meetings so that I can hear you say and then take them with me to parliament. Now one of the matters which I have been wanting to seek your views on this is the space within the estate. When I first came to Sambawang West, what I noticed was that all the buildings were very clo close together. There's very little open space in the estate. There was hardly any space for children to play around in and little open green spaces for families, including our elderly, to enjoy some downtime. I went to block 717A and I was walking along the void deck. I saw a sign that says no bouncing of balls. Look, I can understand maybe the people residents on the second floor can hear the ball bouncing. But that speaks to the issue, right? Where do we have space for children to play, for children to romp around in? That is a huge problem within the estate. But Miss Po together with the Ministry of National Development defended their policy and pointed to the playgrounds dotting the estate and pointed to the green circle park just outside of here. Just take a short walk and it's right there. They said, "Oh, the park was just so big and so big." I went down to take a look at it. I started from one end. I took a stroll, not a brisk walk. I took a stroll with my wife and we finished it in all of four and a half minutes. Of course, they say there's another park, but not much bigger than Green Circle Park on Woodlands Crescent. But these are not open green spaces which are essential for the development of of strong mental health. Even the Ministry of National Development has acknowledged this. PAP keeps saying that they share this ample open green space for Singaporeans to enjoy. I say that this is not enough. Including Simbawang West residents, they continue to suffer from a mental health crisis due to overcrowding and lack of space in Singapore. Now, this is a good example of how I defer from Miss Polley's son when it comes to representing your interests. Some of you had asked me to raise this issue of this lack of open green spaces within the estate. I wanted to organize town hall meetings with you to discuss this issue and to ask residents how they felt about mental health in Singapore. And I wanted to talk to them about what they would consider were appropriate alternatives. So I applied to the Sambawan town council for a space at a void deck or a hall at the Galaxy CC to together with you the residents. But both applications were denied. But if I am your MP, I will be able to use the common spaces for town hall meetings and this is one of the first things I will do if I am elected. Then Mr. Yikong said that he wanted to bring in 100 horses from the former turf city in Bukitima. Do you know how much land you need to build stables and pedocks and fields for 100 horses? If you can do that, why can't you find space for Simbang West residents? I raised the issue of green open spaces because of the mental health crisis we are facing in Singapore. But I talked about it in my speech at Buket Panjang last night and I won't go through them again. But because we had such a smaller population back in 1960s and '7s, we had a lot more space and mental health was not not such a big problem. But we added 4 million people to this island since the 1970s and now our families are packed into crowded estates. As a result, the environments become very stressful for our children. Let me repeat what I said yesterday. 27% of young adults say they have serious considered self harm or suicide. 70% of younger employees said they have experienced burnout because of work. One in three youth experienced severe symptoms of depression, anxiety and and and stress. As health minister, Mr. Ang should talk about what he can do to improve the mental health of residents in Sambawang West and the whole of Singapore rather than having this weird obsession with my not contesting in the non-existent SMC. Mr. said today that this is the fourth day of his campaign and that we should turn our attention to other issues. After getting a shellacking from netizens for not getting his priorities straight, he now says that he will turn to more relevant issues. I think so too. One topic that he should turn to is as I said mental health crisis in this country. One solution is to create more open spaces for Sambawang West residents especially for our youth and our elderly. I won't go through some of the proposals about the future of this town council that James Gomez had mentioned earlier on. But if I am elected, I will implement some of these policies that he had just raised. There was one resident who said asked me whether emailed me whether if I'm elected whether the projects in the pipeline like widening pathways and shaded walks will continue smoothly. My answer is a resounding yes. This new town council will make sure that the government will continue with its projects because these are neutral bodies and they don't care which party runs the town council. They will continue to do what they have been tasked to do. Mr. Murali said at the time assured Buket Bat residents that these upgrading projects are funding neutral and they mean and I quote that these projects do not depend on whether the PAP wins or loses. Mr. below continue. Would you be able to form a residence committee to continue the ongoing outreaches and activities? What are your common platform to engage with your party? I've already highlighted that over and above Meet the People's sessions, we will have regular town halls and most importantly, I will be here on a daily full-time basis and you will have my undivided attention as your MP. With all these duties, what I will do is continue to serve this constituency and make sure that everything runs on time and is finished on time. When you Sbawang West voters step into the polling booth next Saturday, don't do it nervously. Don't do it uncertainly. Instead, do it confidently and do it with pride and put that cross beside my name. And I promise you that I will make you proud to say that I am from Sawang West and I voted for SDP. Thank you. Good night. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you Dr. G. And we will see you all tomorrow evening. One more time. What's your problem?