Sorry. Huh. Hello. Go down. I cannot go. quick. Okay. Wow. That's very nice. supposed to start at Okay. He's coming down. Okay. the type of people newspaper. Oh, okay. Yeah. Open up. Very nice. Do your flag. Ask him to do the factual. Go for it coming. He from that day he sw the flag then all the water spread on I just wash my hair. Good. Hey, so Even for viewers come Hello. Hello everyone. Welcome back to Sun Plaza. Welcome back to Sawan GRC. Well, it's raining again. But it's okay. I will stand in the rain with you like last last time we are here. That was like three days ago. So stay with us. Unfortunately, all our STP umbrellas are sold out, but I can see quite a few umbrellas here. Please share with the one next to you because uh sharing is caring. Remember your votes a secret. Come third of May, please vote briefly. Vote for the SCP and send our 11 candidates to the parliament. Before um we start the rally, can I begin by thanking all of you who paid more than,6 Tahan handpainted t-shirt. Thank you very much. That t-shirt cannot be washed, can only be dry clean because it's hand painted. Thank you very much for the supporters the many or the few support the many supporters sorry the many supporters who donated and beed for the tease and we have raised more than thousand6 for the t-shirts and also we at SDP we have good friends and our good friends are fellow Singaporeans like you. Our good friends are people who came forward to volunteers for us even though we did not promise them free parking or free to choose the primary school that they can send their children to. Can you join me to give a round of applause to our volunteers all over us from the merchandise booth to our media team to our election agent. Thank you very much. We also have 11 very good friends and these 11 good friends are brave enough to be standing as candidate for SDP. Even though we did not promise them electoral success or we did not promise them mayorship when they get elected but they step forward. So come third May, please vote our 11 good friends, our 11 candidates to parliament. Last but not least, we at SDP also have very good friends in every one of you here who come to our rally even though we did not offer you free chicken rice or free buses back or offer you umbrella but you stand in the rain with us and come and buy and you even come and buy our merchandise. volunteers for us when we call for polling agent. Ladies and gentlemen, give a round of applause to yourself. Thank you very much for that friendship with SCP all these years. I know among our supporters here with us, some whom I talked to that they told me that they have actually follow us for like 20 30 years. Thank you very much. That's very touching. And having said all this, I still would like to thank our media. Thanks for being here and doing the live streaming, broadcasting our rallies and your very unique way of helping us with our marketing. Thank you very much because that has actually helped us to sell our merchandise. In fact, our umbrellas, our masks, our tabolet tahantes are all out of stock. Thank you very much. But we still have books. We still have bears that y'all can actually go to the merchandise booth. And we also would like to take this opportunity to thank our policemen. Some of them standing under the rain. I'm standing with you as well. Thank you very much for keeping us safe and keeping this place orderly. We do appreciate two more nights. Thank you our policemen and also I realize we have actually paramedic as well. par paramedic that are somewhere that we cannot see but they will be there should anything happens. Let's also give a round of applause to our paramedics and our men in blue. Thank you very much. Welcome to join me. Yes saw and my Bernard my co-m for tonight. Good evening Sambawang. How are we feeling today? Sambawang we stand here in the rain with you. Umbrella or no umbrella? Keep yourself sheltered. Are we ready to have a good session today? Yes, it's coming up to day two. And of course, uh I don't know. Just now I was inside the taxi and I was wondering myself, how can things be so expensive? You know how much it cost for taxi fair. Okay. From uh Wo all the way here. Okay, it's $51. $51. Then I think to myself, hey, $51 I can buy a lot of chicken rice. But then again, actually chicken rice also is very expensive. Yes or no? Yes or no? And we stand here in the rain. I shouldn't even call this a session. I should be calling it uh the frontier to SDP being in parliament. And because of you, every one of you, ladies and gentlemen, who stand as one voice in the rain, give yourself the biggest cheer. Everybody, we stand here in the rain. Huh? There are two things I'd like to address today. When I woke up in the morning, I saw Tik Tok or I saw Instagram. I saw a lot. The first thing that I want to address when I spoke to my dear learned friend and introduced him which was Arafin. Okay, I want to say this. I want to say that he is a 45year-old sounding. Okay, ladies and gentlemen, he sounds like a 45 year old in a 27y year old body. That's what he is. And Arifin, ladies and gentlemen, has come quite a long way right here to make that stand. Can we please make some noise for Arifin, everybody? Yeah. So once again, ladies and gentlemen, he sounds like a 45 year old in a 27 year old body. He is very young and still very young. Okay. Second thing, the main thing that I saw is something that I want to highlight to everybody right here. You all saw Jasine, right? Everybody, you saw Jasine and you saw there was a video of her that keep talking about merchandise. Yes or no, guys? Yes or no, guys? I don't know where that video came from, but I just want to say for my sister here, you are my sister. Okay? All the party members are my brothers and sisters. Each and every one of you are my brothers and sisters. Okay, guys. So, do we let that happen to her? Do we let that happen to her? You all know what the video was, right? It showcas her trying to sell things, trying to sell merchandise like as though she is trying to try and sell like as though he's selling a uh tissue paper packets and everything else. Correct. Now guys, is that fair to her or not? Is that fair to her? Jasine is like the backbone of STP. I am just an MC guys, but I don't like one thing. When she turn around to me and tell me a burn, do you think it's bullying? I also not sure. Do you think it's bullying? Everybody, do you think it's bullying? I just want to turn to her and I just want to say to her, okay, I don't think I can ever tolerate bullying in whichever way. Whoever made that video, I don't care about the platform that came out, but whoever made that video was not very nice. Was it nice, guys? Yeah. The thing is this, okay? She tries, okay? She does everything she can. During the whole time when I'm on the show, I'm introducing the speakers. Every time she's talking about the merchandise, she's talking about the merchandise until I say, "Hey, keep talking about merchandise." The reason why is because it's not she needs she needs to get the merchandise out and going. People need to buy it if they can buy it because basically she's trying to hold the funds for SDP to sustain. Can we please give her a big round of applause everybody? Give her a supporter. Everybody shout STP SP. Actually, there's nothing um shameful about raising uh selling merchandise to raise funds because election cost like we have to have um nothing is cheap. Nothing is cheap. Justine, look at this backdrop. I can tell you what this backdrop size is. It's definitely more than 24 ft by 12 ft. You know how much that costs, guys? 4C by 4C print. I do events. I tell you this, this thing cost roughly maybe above at least okay 2,000 onwards even more 3,000 4,000 it depends on the stage and laboration. The staging itself also cost ladies and gentlemen AV systems at AV tech AV sound systems are basically running on how many speakers 1 2 3 four or five or six ladies and gentlemen they go into the thousands. So STP does need that funding and it comes from ladies and gentlemen, you know where not from where the guy put that video to the selling of teddy bears. So books and everything else, does she need what she has to do, guys? Is that is that right? Must must she be having a video like this? Is this fair to her? Everybody, is this fair? It's like me going out to sell tissue paper. It is it is something that's important like it is a living. It is helping a living for SDP to at least survive. Not even just talking about tribe survive. These are called expenses ladies and gentlemen. So guys, ladies and gentlemen, today because of that video, you know what I'm going to say now? because of that video. My dear lovely Jasine La Boou girl and let's give her a big round of applause again everybody. She will become very much like a celebrity because of them. We will turn it around and every single merchandise if you like to buy every single flag if you want to buy it doesn't have to be much anything. Okay? anything we will support and we will showcase to you okay that it is not right to be bullied can or not everybody can or not can or not yes or no I'm not interested again I say again it's not the platform h it could have been any platform okay any platform or anybody it could be anybody but whoever made that thing okay devil thought uh how difficult uh it is for her to keep repeating ing about the La Boou. Keep repeating about the teddy bears that are actually they're quite cute. Teddy bears are quite cute. Okay? And keep repeating about the books. That is very important. So please, ladies and gentlemen, together we stay firm as brothers and sisters. We stay strong and we protect each other from anything else. It's like if another let's say another country were to come and attack us or say another country will come to come and disturb us. Will we let them disturb us? Yes or no? Yes or no guys? No. We will protect you. We will take care of each other because we need our voices to be heard. And because ladies and gentlemen, should our 11 candidates get into parliament. All right. So ladies and gentlemen, give yourself a big round of applause. Everybody remember your vote is secret. Come third of May, please vote for SDP. Vote for our 11 candidates to be in parliament and speak up for you. We will take a break before we introduce our next uh speaker or our first speaker. Just give us like few more minutes. A few more minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think our umbrella can take down for a while as well because it is about to start. I think that's why the rain has gone away. Ladies and gentlemen, the rain has gone away. Remember just now what I said when STP come the lightning don't even dare to come and the rain will be away. We all of you all of us here we chase the rain again just like that day and it's going to get more and more packed. The numbers are increasing and increasing. So ladies and gentlemen, folks, whatever is most important you feel in your hearts. Yeah. And of course, we know that we have to have the voice spoken in parliament. And I've never seen so many dedicated people like us, like you, like all of you, each and every one of you guys, ladies and gentlemen. All right. So, please give yourself a big round of applause. Everybody give yourself a SCP cheer. It's uh the last two days, last two nights of rally. I also seek your cooperation to try to come forward um so that when later on when there will be more people to join us, we make space for them. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you very much everybody. See you back in a while. All right, ladies and gentlemen, we're about to begin exactly in roughly about 5 to 10 minutes. Hang in there. We're just waiting for our speakers to come in. a very heavy traffic jam. So, uh bear with us for a moment. Okay. Thank you so much. All right, ladies and gentlemen, right here we are just awaiting. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, Dr. James Gomez has just arrived. Everybody away from the rain. Thank So we got five minutes more, right? Okay. Can I? All right. So, ladies and gentlemen, all right. Okay. While we are waiting right here, okay, for the next speaker, which is in about 5 to 10 minutes, 5 minutes or so, huh? 5 minutes or so. SCP people, are we here? Are we here? Everybody raise your flags. Everybody raise your clappers. Everybody your whistle. All right. So now before we begin okay and I will be the one doing the merchandising and the TV can look at me TV look at me okay you don't come and disturb my sister okay okay guys ladies and gentlemen for every single one now that you know you see how things are please help with the purchase as well okay guys of your bears your la boooo and everything else okay guys so ladies and gentlemen she's going going to be asking the questions. Everybody blow your whistle and I will be giving away the prizes right here. Okay, guys. All right. And we have some fun. We have some quiz. Whoever can answer the question correctly will get a free bear. First one, the people that shout STP the loudest. STP I will start giving you away all the lovely merchandise here. Okay guys, ladies and gentlemen, beginning right here with the book, ladies and gentlemen, that's very important. So everybody, let's shout SDP SDP SDP SDP. There you go. Congratulations GP Bernard is giving away free even though y'all don't have to answer any questions. He's being so generous today. The lucky one who got the books. Later Dr. Chi will be after the rally. Dr. Chi will be somewhere in the front to do the autograph session. Okay? So please stay with us. All right, ladies and gentlemen. Hey, by the way, some plaza was at the back, right? Has everybody eaten the mayo? Mayo. Okay, there's McDonald right across over there to go eat. I also have not eat my dinner yet. Okay, ladies and gentlemen, you feel like a bit faint. Never mind. Just go out and go eat. Okay, we have the best lineup because it's a 250 chicken rice. 250 chicken rice. 250 chicken rice. Sambawang have 250 chicken rice. $2.50 chicken rice. $2.50 chicken rice. In this day of age is quite rare. Sambawang people, I just want to ask you something. I just want to ask you something. How does a $250 chicken rice taste like? Is it good not? Is it good or not? Is it good not? Well, you're at the best part of the location to get a $2.50 50 cent chicken rice. Okay, so once again, Zambawa people, the crowd is building up. Everybody raise your flags right here, high up in the air. Everybody raise our flags right up. Sambawang, let's the voices be heard together as one from here all the way to the whole of Singapore. Sambawang, if we're ready, make some noise. Thank you so much Sawang. And right here if you see anybody like want to faint or anything or cannot already this here please let us know. Please alert us as well. We also want to say one more thing to the men in blue who are taking care. It's not easy doing what they're doing. Do me a favor everybody. Can we please give them a big warm round of applause everybody? Let's give them a big hand. All right, ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to hear for our first speaker? Is it about time? Okay, let me introduce our first speaker. He is he he used to be a young Democrat when I just got to know him. He's Mr. Aza Suliman and he is a very prominent youth leader in the Malay community. Ladies and gentlemen, let us give a warm welcome to Mr. Aza Suliman. Yeah. Good evening. Thank you all for being here. Not just as a resident but as a citizen who care deeply about our country. Last Friday I stood in Buket Panjang. I said something from the heart. Buket Pangjang in short is called BP. It also stand for brave people. Yeah. And today I want to say Sbawang 2 is full of brave people. You may not shout it, you may not show it, but bravery isn't loud. It's leave. Is the mother who keep meals so her children don't go hungry. Is the hawker who keeps the stall open although the cost is rising. Is the student working part-time just to help with the bills. Bravery is waking up every day knowing the system isn't fair but showing up anyway. But they tell you everything is fine. They say trust us HDB is still affordable. Trust us, the economy is strong with them. Trust us, your future is safe with PAP. But let me ask you something, Sambawang. Does it feel fine? Are your children able to buy home easily? Is your retirement secure? Can you afford to fall sick? Yes. Can you afford to grow old? The PIP solution is always the same. Throw more grants, hand out more vouchers, distract with more gimmicks like $1 eggs and all that. But the brave people of Singapore, you deserve real solution. We need housing policies rooted in fairness, not profit. Healthcare that that is about healing, not bills. Leaders who listen, not lecture us. That is what Singapore Democratic Party is here to offer. We are not perfect, but we are honest. We are brave. We are not We are not backed by GLC or billion dollar budgets. We are backed by something stronger, the will of the people. Now, many of you know that I am a real estate agent in the day. So tonight I want to talk something that is close to my heart. The HDB resale market is the elephant in the room. Even the recent budget, they didn't address it properly. Yes, prices continue to rise and fast. Last year alone, the price of our HDB increased by 10%. Here in Sambawang, the cheapest three room flat cost nearly 500,000. Why? Because there are hardly a old flats in Sawang. So if you are single and 35, you almost cannot afford a resale flat here unless you are high income earner or have significant CPF or cash savings. HDB own website shows that it had increased 37% in the last four years. Last week I shared how my client four room flat gained 65% just like that. 65 just like that. In five years yesterday I calculated for another client of mine five room flat it grows 60% in five years. Do the maths for your own home. You might be shocked. Some might say good what price go up. But really ask yourself who benefit the most when every year the price go up by 10 to 12%. Is it the young people buying their first flat? The retirees looking to downgrade? No. Is the bank or HDB that borrows out your loan your your home amount or loan amount? Number two is the government because the more you park your CPF in your home, the more money is available for them to do their investment and they pay you back 2.5%. Cheap loan for them. Number three, the government again because they collect more tax, property tax and your all the stem duties when you buy a home. But we are not here to complain. We are here to offer solutions. That's why our nonopen market flats policy is here for those who want a home not investment no land cost must sell it back to HDB simple secure and fair so it'll be cheaper because not everyone want to get rich in life some just want to be happy for peace stability and dignity why not provide the option for us number two our solution is rent to own scheme for firsttime home owners where rent contributes towards eventual ownership. Every year I meet at least one client of mine that want to sell their flat the same year that they collect their keys. Most of the time is about because they are getting divorced. I'm sure HDB face this a lot of time for their BTO's. And I have one more idea. This is for the sandwich class. Do bear with me because not everyone would relates to this, but it has something to do with our slogan, thrive and not just survive. The proposal is scrap ABSD for Singaporean buying their second property because today if you have a HDB and you want to buy a second property, you have to pay almost 24% of extra taxes. That is not helping people to grow. That is holding them back. Killing their dreams of wanting to own a second second home. Maybe that's the point. P don't want us. P only want us to survive, not thrive. I came here for this rally. I saw potential. I saw pride. I saw pain that have been ignored for far too long. But most of all I saw bravery for coming out coming here although it was raining just now. So bravery is is not just in Buket Panjang it's not just in Sambawang is in all of us waiting to rise. So tonight I ask you be the brave people who choose change. Be the brave people who say enough. Be the brave people who like the path forward. If Buket Panjang was the spark, let Sbawang be the flame. Let's show the whole nation that courage is contagious, that hope is powerful, that change is possible. On 3rd May, all of your voters will be equals, all of your vote will be equal. And it will be very important because it will be a very tight contest for all our 11 SDP candidates. So vote with your heart. Vote with your vote with hope. Vote like the brave people you already are. Thank you sawang. Let's be brave together. Let's take our future. I would like to end with a simple poem for all of us. We are not the rich. We are not the few. But we are strong and we are true. We don't have power, gold or fame. But we have hope. That's our flame. So rise with courage. Cast your vote. For dreams we held. For words we wrote. The future is ours. No more disguise. Stand tall. Stand proud. Let brave heart rise. Thank you everyone. SDP SDP. Thank you. And now, ladies and gentlemen, over to our next speaker right here. Let's give him a big warm round of applause right here. Yes. Let's give her a big warm round of applause. Ladies and gentlemen, she's right here coming in for Suraya. Everybody, Suraya is also our candidate for Sbawang GRC. Let's give the chant everybody. SD Ladies and gentlemen, SA. That's perfect. This one low. Yeah. Thank you so much. Thanks. Lower a bit. Lower a bit. Thanks, J. Thank you, Shawa. Thank you. Good evening, Sambawang. Wow, it's good to see so many of you here tonight. We want to extend our sincere gratitude to our members and change makers for their tireless effort and dedication. Thank you also to our wonderful MC's who have given their all in support of our cause. There are a couple of ways you can continue to help us move forward. We would be grateful if you would consider supporting us by purchasing our adorable bears. Additionally, we are currently looking for enthusiastic individuals to sign up as polling agents. Your involvement in this crucial role would be invaluable. Thank you for your ongoing commitment and support. We note Minister Angi Kung's suggestion that the Singapore Democratic Party has taken a leave from another opposition party's housing proposal. This is factually incorrect and misleading. Let's set the record straight. The SDP nonopen market noom housing scheme was first introduced in n 20 2019. The noom scheme proposes that HDB flats be sold based on construction and administrative costs only without inflated land cost. It is designed as a parallel public housing model affordable for lower and middle inome Singaporeans while stabilizing long long-term housing affordability. To accuse the SDP of imitation is not only inaccurate, it also distracts from the real housing issues facing Singaporeans today. runaway resale prices, housing insecurity for young families and b financial burdens on working citizens. Also, Kung can perhaps sh care to shed some light to voters what happens to D flat at the end of their 99 years list term. We also note the remarks made regarding upgrading works and development plans in areas like in Simbawang. Let us be clear, all town council improvements, infrastructure upgrades and estate enhancements are paid using taxpayers dollars. They are not party gifts. They are not political rewards. They belong to the people of Singapore regardless of who they vote for. To imply otherwise is to politicize public funds and betray the very principle of fair governance. Tell it like it is. If what you say be true, we in SDP don't just talk about fairness. We plan for it. Our NOM scheme is backed by policy logic and economic sustainability. Our town plans like in Simbawang and other constituencies are people first, not party first. We will continue to propose bold, compassionate, and grounded alternatives without fear and without needing to borrow anyone else's ideas. We invite Oni Kung to debate policies, not play politics. Let us move the conversation away from turf wars and back to what truly matters. The people's homes, the people's lives, and the people's future. For decades, Sbawang has been treated like an afterthought, managed from spreadsheets planned with rulers and red tape and promise upgrading carrots only when elections come around. Sound familiar? In 2006, they dangle leave upgrading. In 2011, they wave a $500 million renewal plan. In 2020, they pointed to Urra maps and called that a vision. And now in 2025, they say, "Look, a seafront district coming soon. Maybe eventually, just trust us." We say enough already. Sawang deserve more than just brochers and blueprints. You deserve deserve a town that builds with you for you and not just when it's convenient for a campaign. SDP's plan for Sbawang is different. It's not about pouring more concrete and steel roofs. It's about putting care, community, and heart back into the heartlands. Now let me ask you, how many of you have tried crossing an overhead bridge in Simbawa with groceries or with elderly parents or while carrying a child? And yet no leaves, no rams, just good luck and strong knees. But don't worry, the PAP says be resilient. Resilient. Resilience is not climbing stairs with arthritis. is a government that sees the stairs and installs a lift. We in the SDP will push for elevators at every major overhead bridge because accessibility is not a luxury, it's a dignity. And speaking of dignity, our elderly have built this town. But how many proper resting spots are there for them when they go out for a walk? You know what we say? You can't sit on GDP. So we'll install more seats with armrest and back support in hight traffic areas. Not just for comfort, but to show respect. We don't we don't measure progress in dollars. We measure it in how we care for those who came before us. Now I want to ask the young people here something. Have you ever tried finding a quiet air conditioned space to work or study in Simbawang without buying a $6 coffee? You either squat in a cafe or fight for power sockets at the library. We will fix that. SDP proposes a public collaborative co-working space open to students, freelancers, startups, retirees learning new skills. No need to buy a latte just to charge your laptop. And for the younger generation facing stress, anxiety, pressures from studies or work, we will build a youth mental wellness center right here in Simbaang. Because well-being shouldn't be a taboo. A support shouldn't come with strings attached. We don't need another overpriced mall. We need spaces that heal, that connect, that care. Now, let's talk about our coast. You know, Sambawang Park Beach, right? Well, surprise, it got a fair grade for water quality, which is government speak for, hey, maybe don't swim unless you have good insurance. And now they want to build a shiny new waterfront district there. Look, we're all for development, but not if it turns our beach into a construction site and our fish into chemical experiments. SDP will demand real environmental protection with more regular water testing with public reporting and strong enforcement against illegal dumping because we want to preserve our mangroves, not just margins on spreadsheets. Oh, and to all animal lovers out there, we didn't forget you. We will protect our stray cats by funding food and medical care, offering microchipping and working with volunteers. Cat feeders who have been doing this from their own pockets. It's time the government stop acting like is playground and your problem. People comes first as well as our four-legged friends. This isn't frivolous policy. This is cultural strength. Friends, we know what the PAP will say. They'll tell you, don't take risk. Don't rock the boat. But let me ask, whose boat? the one with two black and white bungalows and private car parks. Or maybe they'll say, "Don't worry. We're our own checks." Yeah, right. The famous own check. Own selfch check own self. Let's be real. When power goes unchecked, the people get sidelined. And for decades, Sbawang has been sidelined. token upgrades, copy pasted plans, and no real voice in parliament. You can change that come May 3rd. Don't give the PAP another 5 years of silence. Elect MPs who will speak for you, fight for you, and walk the ground with you even when there's no media camera around. Vote for compassion. Vote for transparency. Vote for a town plan that puts the heart back into the heartland. Vote SDP. Vote Zambawang's future. Thrive, not just survive. Thank you. Majula Singapura. Thank you everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, Suraya. Everybody, thank you Suraya for that very, very passionate speech. I need to remind our voters again, your vote is secret. Come 3rd of May, please vote for our 11 candidates and send them to parliament. That's right. How many of you would like to vote Suraya in everybody? Suraya is also the candidate for Sbawang GRC which is where the constituency we are in right now. Where's the Sambawang residents? Are you here? Can I hear Sambawang residents? Not forgetting Sambawang West, are you here? Sambawang West, are you here? Are you here? Bujang residents, are you here? Buket Banjang for Dr. Paul Tambaya. And last but not least, last but not least, over to you. Mling UT students, are you here? Thank you for joining us. Thank you and fire. That's right. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, right here, as the rest of the other speakers come in, feel free. We are going to enjoy ourselves. Feel free to get louder and louder if you like. Once again, ladies and gentlemen. And right now, we're going to bring on, is everybody ready? We're going to bring on, ladies and gentlemen, Dan. Everybody, Dam is what we affectionatally always call him. He's the candidate for Sambawang GRC. Okay. People of Sambawang GRC, how are you tonight? Tired, huh? Tonight is our final pitch to you, our Sambawang voters. to vote us to be your SDP MPs. The power of change is back in your hands. A change that unites hope from the deepest of our hearts to shape for ourself and our families, our loved ones, a future we all want for our country, Singapore. Out of seven rallies we held, two of them at Beacon Primary School in Buket Panjang, the sky gifted us with a beautiful and gorgeous rainbow. Do you see that on Facebook? Is that a sign, my friends? We are grateful that the sky has spought this blessed rain on us on many days throughout the this campaign to cool our hearts and wash away our fears. Sambawang, you have embraced us with your smiles and cheers, urging us on cho. When we meet you at the coffee shops, the MRT, the corridors of your homes, we feel the warm welcome. Thank you, Sambawang. Now it's time for us. Thank you. Now it's time for us, the five candidates, to promise and pledge to you our commitment if you make us your SDP MPs on the 3rd of May. Number one, we will speak up for you in parliament on the issues that concerns you the most that the PAP don't. Number two, we will together run your estate. and your town council professionally and efficiently on our own with the support of our season and experienced members who previously have done so before. Number three, we will conduct the meet the people session regularly to listen to your concerns and complaints and endeavor to help you the best we can in partnership with each other and relevant agencies whenever required. Number four, we will engage you by organizing regular town hall meetings focusing on aspects of life and living in Sambawang. And finally, number five, we will strive to visit you at your homes and meet you regularly in and around Sambawang GRC. Is that okay? However, the first order of business should you elect us on the 3rd of May is to ensure a smooth transition between the previously run PAP town council to our newly set up SDP Sambawang Town Council. These are our Thank you very much. These are our collective commitments to you Sambawang. So will you vote for SDP on the 3rd of May? Thank you. Now let us shift focus to Minister Minister Yi Kong. So Minister Ang was here the night after hours and disappointingly make some false accusations about the SDP claiming that we copy the PSP on the non-open market BTO flat scheme proposal. These are the facts. The Singapore Democratic Party was the first to propose removing land costs from the pricing of public housing flats. In April 2019, the SDP introduced it nonopen market scheme suggesting that housing and development board flats be priced based solely on administrator administrative material and labor costs excluding land cost. This approach aimed to make flats more affordable with estimated prices ranging from 70,000 for two room flat to 240,000 for five room flats. The Progress Singapore Party PSP later proposed a similar concept in February 2023 through its affordable home scheme. Under this proposal, buyers would pay a user price covering construction and a notional location premium differing the land cost payment until the flat is sold after the minimum occupation period. For instance, a 350,000 flat in Tanga will require an upfront payment of 140,000 with the remaining 210,000 representing the land cost payable upon resale. In summary, the SDP was the first to advocate for excluding land cost from HDB flat prices, introducing its proposal in 2019 while the PSP presented a related scheme in 2023. So how people can we puff the minister? Yeah. So tomorrow we puff the minister. Okay. So we always going to puff, right? So it's about time we puff them. Then thank you very much. Then in another part of his speech, he said things to imply that only he and the PAP MPs can discuss and partner government agencies and that yes, how can that be so? And that his ministerial position advantages Sawang. On the first point, is he saying that the government agencies are partisan and politically beholden to the PAP? Surely not. Right? Such that when we become MPs, these agencies will not talk to us because it sounds like that. The government agencies and the civil servants who run and operate them are professionals and nonpartisan and definitely do not have any political masters or does minister thinks otherwise or have been acting otherwise all this while? In other words, he has been abusing his party and political position to get the government agencies to work for him. Has he been behaving like their political masters? Has Minister Oni Kang overstep his political power? He better get back in line before he need to block Hussein the second time in this election. Fellow Singaporeans, this is the reality that the PAP has created after holding to power for more than 60 years, blurring the lines, becoming too comfortable with their way of working where political influence and overlapping interest seems prevalent. This is not right. In the meantime, the PAP continues to use fear mongering campaign. Do you think it will work? Do you fear change? Do you want change? Change for the better. Change that brings hope. changing your MPs from the PAP to the SDP. Thank you very much. Among what was said here by the PAP is don't play with your votes. You may lose too many ministers and that to them may be bad. Is that bad my friends? Is losing Vivian Bala Krishnan in parliament bad? Is losing Kang in parliament bet? We have Dr. Paul Tambaya can take over him as the health minister anytime. So my friends, do not let their fear mongering deter you from giving the other side a chance as the late LKY predicted. So on the 3rd of May, be brave and courageous to try the other side and vote for SDP. Vote for the Sambawang GRC team. Thank you. Allow me to speak in Malay. MPH SDP MPC Dr. James Gomez MP SDP Town Hall. Bangalore British India. MPU grcel singaran plaza. Unila SDP, finally voters of Sambawang, on the 3rd of May, use the power to change in your hands and vote for the SDP. Thank you and good night. That's why ladies and gentlemen, Bman, everybody, let's give him a big round of applause. I like the energy level here. Can I hear you again? Sambawang. Sambawang. The Sambawang team here. The energy is so good. Come on, let's do it. Sbang. Sbang. Everybody, we're going to do a photo later on. Huh? Let's go. Hands up. SA. That's right. Make some noise. Remember 3rd of May, please vote for our 11 candidates and send them to Parliament. Your vote is secret. Do not be afraid to vote for SDP. That's right. And that's why we here everybody to bring up our next speaker. Let's bring it up. Bring it warm. Bring it hot. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do it together. Hands up. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Alfred. Let's give a round of applause. Mr. Alfred everybody. Alfred is a candidate for Sambawang GRC. Higher. Higher. Good evening, Sawang. Singapore is not broken. It is bleeding. We are bleeding not because we are lazy, not because we lack ideas, but because the people in charge, the ones you had elected stopped listening to you. GST go up, costs of good, cost of food go up, cost of everything go up. But your salary not much. You are still stuck in the same red race. The government said we must increase GST and it's right after the COVID pandemic during inflation time and at a time when people are just trying to breathe again. Is that heartless? Did the PAP government care? Did your Sambawang PAP MPs fight back? Did they say, "Wait, not now. My people are suffering." Did they? No. No. That's right. They just followed instructions. Keep quiet. Be obedient. Is that leadership from your MPs or are they just a rubber stem? I tell you what leadership is. Leadership is listening. Leadership is standing up to say this policy hurts my residents. We must change it. The SDPMP will look out for you. We will speak out loud and clear for you. We will push for policies that are caring, reasonable, and humane because that's our job. We want a leader who represent you. You do not need a useless chop, a rubber stem to represent the government bad policies. Now let's just also talk sometime about our small businesses andmemes. You may run a shop, a hawker store, a logistic or delivery outlet or maybe a small accounting practice or grooming services. You have been struggling because GST was high. The cost of ingredients and raw material is high. Rents is up. Utilities is up. Manpower hard to find. Foreign competition undercutting you. It is the bad uncaring policies of the PAP government. They insisted on the GST increases. They created the high COE system thereby increasing transport and delivery cost. They let you suffer because they don't see you as a priority. Their top priority is to squeeze the money, the life out of you, to exploit you. A thriving theme ecosystem is the strength and backbone of a strong independent nation. The MNC's come and go. They go where the cost is cheaper, where workers and rents are cheaper and they do not have any loyalty to any other host country except their home country. We in the SDP say this clearly. Small businesses are the soul of the local economy. The thememes are the strength of a nation. They impact many many aspects of the lives of the people, the community, the town. They are too important to ignore. The government controls most of the land in Singapore. It can set policies to control the cost of land and rent here in Singapore. If the government set certain caps or certain restrictions on property prices, especially those government-owned properties which they own a lot, the nation can collectively benefit and progress better. If the price of the coffee shop below your block has not been sold at such crazy prices, the store rentals will not need to be so high. then the food sold by the food stores will not be that high. If the price of the resale secondary HTB market has not been sold at such crazy prices, the rest of the country's HDB flat prices will not be pulled up by this few crazy transactions. And now since the PAP government takes reference from the prevailing selling price of flats in that area, more moderate resale price will now certainly contain below will certainly contain the prices of upcoming BTO flats. The SDP has in our proposal a new stock of public flats that will be sold at a cheaper rate. This will help Singaporeans get the roof over their heads without s set s set s set s set s set s set s set s set s set s set saddling themselves with debts for so long. The price of non-open market flats the non flats the SDP calls it will be calculated without the land cost but with the condition that it must be sold back to the HTB when the flat lease owner moves up moves out later. Now the rest of Singapore can still buy the more expensive existing flats if they want to. Our non proposal has been in our policy papers long long before the PSP was set up. So it befuddles me and my colleagues in the SDP how Mr. Kang could publicly accuse the SDP of taking this fantastic idea from the PSP when the PSTP has not even been born. I guess paying a million dollar to a minister doesn't guarantee you top quality leaders in the PAP government. And as usual, the PAP ministers will never apologize for their fallouts because in their minds they can make no mistakes. Is that the kind of leader and minister Singapore deserves? The bad and heartless policies of the PAP government such as the increase in GST, the increase in property prices in Singapore is killing the spirit of everyday Singaporeans andmemes. That greed of the PAP government to want to squeeze out as much as he can out of ordinary Singaporeans must stop. Voters of Sawang, stand up and reject the PAP. Send that message to the PAP. Do not fear. Instead, stand up confidently because of the new hope, a better tomorrow. SP and it's not just about parliament and government policies. Let's talk about your our neighborhood, our town. Sabawang deserves better town management. You deserve towns, estates that are clean, dry, safe and vibrant. I hear flooding in certain areas. Is it clean? Residents have been talking and complaining. But is the town council is the town council listening? SDP heard you. You told us the present set of PAP MPs could not keep the town clean. Mr. Oni Kang is too busy with his 100 horses. He has no time to hear your concerns. No time to respond to and solve your problems. We in the SDP will push for better flood management, quicker estate response, safety patrols in quiet zones, upgrades where needed, not where it's politically convenient. Because it's not just about winning elections. It is about doing right after winning your vote. This is how we built a vibrant caring town with real ground presence not just posters and banners that you see around the town. Now let me say this clearly. The SDP believes in building sawang from the ground up. Not just through policies not true but through presence through your partnership through the people. We are here we are not here to be heroes. We are here to be your voice your backup your team. Now, let me say something important too, especially to our civil servants. To those of you working hard in the civil service, maybe you have been told cannot vote opposition. Maybe you have been pressured to just support the status quo. Let me be very, very clear. Your vote is secret. No one, I repeat, no one can see how you vote. Your bosses in the civil service cannot see your vote. They do not know. And you know what else? In a democracy, a good civil service works with any elected government, not with just one party. Not voting pap is not betrayal. It is patriot is patriotism because a good government must be balanced inclusive. It must take care of the diverse needs of Singaporeans. You deserve the nation. You serve the nation and that includes the people, not just the ruling party. I don't think that's going to happen. So to every teacher, nurse, HDB engineer, military officers, stat board executive, LTA planners, civil service, you are allowed to vote for change and we thank you for your service. No matter how you vote, but vote with heart. Vote with conscience. Now, let me close with this. You don't need perfect politicians. You just need politicians who care, who listen, and who dare to speak up. And that's what SDP stands for. So in this election, if you want a well-maintained and caring town, if you want real help for businesses, if you want an MP who dares to challenge unfair pra policies, if you want someone who will never forget where he came from, then vote with your mind. Vote with your heart. Vote for hope. Vote for life. Vote for change. Vote SDP. Thank you. Number one, Majula Singapura. Thank you, Alfred. Ladies and gentlemen, Alfred, everybody, Miss Alfat, let's give him a big hand. So, on 3rd of May, like what Alfred say, we will remove them. That's right. And the spirits are getting stronger and stronger by the minute. Ladies and gentlemen, everybody right here, Sambabang, we thrive once again, not just survive. Everybody make some noise. Sbabang raw. And commercial break. It's time for me to do my job again. Everybody, let's give her a big round of applause. She's going to do her job, guys. Let's give her a big hair, guys. Let's give the support she needs. Take a nicer picture of me, please. When you want to pose, take a nicer picture of me. Supporters, please go to our merchandise booth, get a clapper, get a bear, get a book, support us. We need all the support that we can to fund this campaign. And also, the SCP need polling agent. Please sign up as our polling agent for more information. Please go to our merchandise booth. They'll be more than happy to explain to you, you know, the shift and what is needed for the polling agent. That's my supporters. Give yourself a big clap. Everybody clap as loud as you can, guys. Jasine, I'm going to do this one for you. Everybody, when I say one, two, three, okay, everybody for her. Because you know what? She's been covered having to go through so much right here. Bring your clapper. Bring your books. Bring your loud boooo. Everybody I say 1 2 3. Everybody raise your flags and make some noise. This one is for you. Jasine Zamb. Everybody together. That's the crowd. Sabang. Thank you very much. And let's welcome our next speaker, Dr. James Gomez. and he's the candidate for Sambawang GRC. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. Advocate for democracy and human rights, Dr. James Gomez. Everybody, it's okay. Uh today the title of my speech is called reset sambawang replace pap install change. Dear voters of Simbaang, your vote this coming Saturday, the 3rd of May, is a vote to reset Sambawang GRC since the start of the elections at every rally through every statement every piece of campaign messaging from the PAP and Onianga young. There's only one thing that stands out. They are stuck in the past. Stuck talking about what you should be grateful for and stuck using the same old fear mongering playbook. It is clear the PAP is not the party of change. Singaporeans want new ideas, real accountability, and leaders who put the people, not the party and their individual selves at the center. In the run-up to the elections and now through this election season, analysts, netizens, observers, and residents alike have ranked the SDP as one of the first tier opposition parties in Singapore. But we are humbled by the recognition. The truth is the SDP is just an ordinary party made up by ordinary people. But we do have lots of passion. Nevertheless, at the request of Sambawang residents, the SDP has come forward to contest in Sambawang GRC in the hope that our passion to serve can help the residents. So thank you residents of Sambawang for giving us this privilege with SDP. There is no need for Kang to bring the turf city horses here. The SDP's red horses, your candidates for Sambawang GRC and Sambawang West SMC are already here. And with the Sambawang Waters blessing and support, we hope to win and replace Kang and his PA team for Sambawang residents. We are the no horse run. SDP boa sdp boow. SDP on Kang says, "If you don't want to give us the PAP a blank check, then don't give the SDP a free pass either. It is the PAP that has had a free pass for decades. And what have they done with it? Look around you. Cost of living has soared. Job security is failing while inequality is rising. Healthcare is expensive for ordinary Singaporeans and support is peacemeal. Every year, every election, it is the same issues and the same hardships that Singaporeans have to face that the PAP cannot resolve. Oni Kang has collected millions in salary from the taxpayers money. It is his job to deliver results, not to sit back while the civil servants do the work and arrogantly shoot down the SDP's ideas. Ideas collected from Singaporeans to al alleviate the people's suffering. We can no longer afford to be passive against this inability of the PAP to solve the people's problems. The situation simply cannot go on. It must stop here and now. The PAP team in Sambawang has to be replaced. Let's speak about Sambawang's town development. Every election the PAP boasts about whatever infrastructure that has been built in the past years. Oni Kang says, "Do you think any of this would happen if the SDP were in charge?" Dear Sambawang residents, these aren't PAP gifts. Town development is not a PAP favor to give or not to give to the people as said when it chooses. These are public projects funded by taxpayers and have to be completed according to the national plan. But what is Kang doing? He's issuing thinly veiled threats to Sambawang residents. Vote for the PAP or lose your development projects. What we are seeing now is the true face behind Oni Khan's social media spun narrative. A politically presumptuous, a politically entitled, constitu constitution hopping, underperforming minister who now can sense the Sambawang voters do not want him anymore. But let me ask, where is Oni Kang's Samawang Town Plan? on 7th April early this month he announced that the Sambawang plan for the next five years will be published in the coming weeks. It has been three weeks and we are on the second to last day of the campaign. Still no sound, no picture. He has become a silent a Bia. Meanwhile, the SDP has delivered its own town plan titled putting the heart in hard land for the constituency in the northern strategy. The town plan is a people- centered blueprint shaped by the voices of you, the Sambawang residents, aimed at building an inclusive, accessible, and connected community. It prioritizes key improvements like more seating for seniors and lifts on overhead bridges while also creating support system for youths and plans to protect the environment, animal, and wildlife. The STP will also convene regular town halls in areas under the STP's northern strategy to ensure ongoing public input and alignment. But when we mention town hall, PAP Sambawang West SMC candidate police son mocks our town halls. She calls them political theater. What this really means is how far removed the PAP is from the basic idea of democracy. To them, public participation sounds alien, something unnecessary or even threatening to them. It also shows that the PAP can only see open honest public consultation efforts as political stunts because they do not see the use in talking to you and us as residents. But to us in the SDP, town halls are about real engagement. Town halls bring people together publicly so problems can be discussed collectively. We plan to hold such town halls in Sambawang and other constituency in our northern strategy regularly. At every town hall we will engage with the people. That is accountability. We know the PAP rejects this approach and that is exactly the difference between the PAP and the SDP. But let's move to healthcare. Oni Kang is a health minister with no medical background. Propping himself up over civil servants at the health ministry talking down to the very people he's mean to serve. Over the years, the PAP has built a system so complex, medicave, medic shield, aggressive means testing and stringent subsidies. All this while he fails to keep health care prices in check. Punishing Singaporeans for not being able to afford private options themselves. The SDP proposes a singlepayer universal health model, one that removes unnecessary administrative waste, eliminates duplication, duplication caused by the multiclass system, and puts money directly into care, not into bureaucracy. At the same time, we will push for lowering health care costs. Meanwhile, and here this is interesting, across a whole week of campaigning, on Kang has not presented a single new health idea, only recycling the PAP's tired party lines and political posturing. On Kang has no cogent argument apart from spouting out a bunch of convoluted statements. On the other hand, the SDP has launched a detailed policy brief nationalizing mental health care in addition to national health care policy platform that seeks to address the root causes of the mental health care crisis together with increasing support for those with mental health conditions. Our proposal is to bring mental health care centrally as a critical component of Singapore's national health plan. This is the kind of initiative that FTP MPs are capable of bringing to parliament. Our initiative on the town plan and the national healthcare are examples of the ideas and work SDP MPs can do for the residents of Sabbawang GRC. That's why we are fielding not only passionate candidates but also candidates of caliber with sound policy oriented ideas and who are ready to serve. Let's talk about housing. Oni Kang insists that removing land cost from new BTO flats will cheapen new flats but will damage resale value. Oni Kang is out of touch and has not got his facts right. As my colleagues have pointed out, not all young people are thinking about the resale value of flats. If your first flat is priced out of reach, then what good is the resale market? Young people want affordable housing, want to start families, and do not want to worry about costs and expenditures. Increasingly for young people, a home is a place to live, not just to be a stock to flip down the line. We propose a non-open market scheme that prices HTB flats for their construction and administration cost and allows HTB buybacks not to rob value but to restore excess to restore the original core value of having an HTB flat scheme in the first place. For young Singaporeans, what matters most is affordable housing to start their independent lives. In short, in this election campaign, Oni Kang has nothing substantive to offer. And in this vacuum of ideas, he continues to attack the opposition and bully the voters to vote for him and the PAP. All the while downplaying the problems, eating away at Singaporeans or denying them altogether. Oni Kang is a great example of the type of politician the PAP grooms and props up. Singaporeans don't want PAP MPs who will speak down to them condescendingly. When voters reject such PAP candidates in one constituency, the PAP parachutes them into another redrawn constituency, hoping that a weak political contender there will let them through without the free pass. Well, not this time in Sambawang. This time it's a face off with the SDP. Vote for SDP. vote for SDPMPPS give us a clear mandate of 50.1% or more. It is clear as we gallop into the final turn that Oni Kang is hemorrhaging public support. Hence he has started on a political self-praising campaign. Self-praise if it's used judiciously can be a positive tool to boost confidence and self-esteem. In Kang's case, this self-praise is excessive, boastful, and arrogant. It is simply too much. So, Kang leaves us no choice. We have to sack that bugger. Sack that bugger. Sack that bugger. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, James. Dr. James Gomez, everybody. Third of May, please vote for our 11 candidates. Vote for Sambawang GRC. Let them be your representative in parliament. Introduce the next speaker. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. Vote for the right bugger. And now leave me to introduce. Now allow me to introduce our Sambawang GRC candidate and also the team leader, Mr. Brian Lim. Can the people at the back hear me good? Dear voters of Sambang GRC and supporters of the SDP, let me hear you roar. Thank you. First of all, I'd like to speak in English for the first few minutes of my speech to make a rebuttal to Mr. on Khan's criticism of our party in his speech at this very many very two days ago. Keeping water Ha. My friends, I would like to quote Mr. Oink Kang from Chao's online article printed on 29th April at 1:25 a.m. He said, "The opposition, and obviously he's referring to the STP, is good at proposing radical policies. what the PAP has been more pragmatic after years in power and the policies it implements are all well fought out. Now my friends, may I ask you to join me in a little exercise? Don't worry, I'm not going to ask you to collect cutboards for this exercise like Mr. Tanjin, I just need a few minutes of your time to find out some answers on your own. Is that all right with you? Firstly, I would like you to take out your mobile phone. Has everyone done that? For the viewers at home, please join us in this exercise. Secondly, please go to any browser, for example, Google. I want you to type chat GPT. You have the G chat GPT app. Please open it up. Are you done? Some uncles and aunties may be struggling at this stage. So for those who are techsavvy, can you please help them? All right. Is everyone ready? Okay. Now I want you to type these words in the chat. GBT query box and repeat after me as you type so that the whole assemb can hear you. Repeat after me. All right. How many STP policies with the PAP copy and adopt in the last 30 years. Have you typed that? Okay. Okay. Don't press the submit button yet because I like everyone to do it together. Right. Are you done? Okay. Is someone ready? Okay. Let's press the submit button now. What do you see? Do you see the list of so-called radical STP policies which the pragmatic PAP government has copied and adopted? Do you see that? Okay, my friends, I need a small favor from you. Can you please show this to Mr. if you happen to see him tomorrow during his walkab house visits? Can you do it? Or you can send this G chat GPT results to his social media channels. Thank you. Now, let's see if Chad GBT has a snowballs chance of being puffed. by him since the PAP is fond of using this political tool to silence descent. My friends, you can continue to play around with chat GBT and ask questions like, "Is Sam Shamugan's garden bigger than my house?" or "How many of 100 horses can fit into Vivian Balak Krishna's garden? But please my friends please do this only after the rally or Dr. Paul or do and Dr. Tree is going to box my ears later when you don't pay attention to their speeches. Okay. All right. Enough of horsing around. Let me switch to men for now. In English is called restart GP. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Why PSP? Go away. Fore PSP consens. Why can't Why? Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Go away. one. Go away. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! What's that? GDP, GDP, Okay. Singapore waiting. Thank you Bernardet. I would like to remind our voters your vote is secret. So come third of May. Go to the poll, vote for us, vote for SCP, and let our 11 candidates be your voice in parliament. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. Vote for who? And now for the moment that you all are waiting for. All right, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have a session together right now. All right, we are going to bring and it's it's there. As a matter of fact, ladies and gentlemen, the moment of the moment waiting for We are going to bring, as you would say, I mean, there's no other way to put it. We're going to bring our balls. Everybody shout SD SP. That's right. We got the iron in us, ladies and gentlemen. the iron in us right here. For those holding the flag, please lower it down so that we up everybody. Keep the balls rolling. Louder, everybody. STP STP STP STP. Everybody roll. STP STP Let's let them show us who we are while you're passing the ball around. Dreaming man SCP rolling. You are the people, ladies and gentlemen. You are the iron, ladies and gentlemen. And they will be the voices of you. Who do we vote for? Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. And now let us welcome our speaker the speaker that many of you are waiting for the candidate for Buket Banjang SNC Dr. Paul Tambaya Mr. bottom by everybody. Once again, everybody, who do we vote for? This is too low. Uh, too high. Yeah. Turn it down. Hey, thank you. Yeah. Down, down, down. Sorry. Yeah. Okay. Ah, you good. Perfect. Yeah. And move it a bit more to the side. Yeah. Yeah. Dear residents of Sambawang, in August 2022, the SDP announced our decision to return to Sbawang in a big way by holding a mega walkabout on national day that culminated in Kong Admiral T with a media door stop. It got quite a bit of coverage but soon after that I was at a medical function where the guest of honor was Mr. Oni Kang. Now my table happened to be near to the ballroom entrance and my wife suggested that I get up to greet Mr. Hong as he passed by to show him there was nothing personal, nothing personal about the STP going to Sambawang. However, before I could get up, he came over and he showed my hand and he said, "You are going to Sawang." I said, "Not me, but our team is." He smiled, was ushered to his seat by the chairman. The ta captured that interaction and the photo is a great piece of photojournalism which you can look up if it may still be available online. Anyway, the point of this story is to emphasize that the SDP has P campaign has never been personal. We do not do negative campaigning. Mr. Ang comes from a distinguished political family. His father, Mr. Anglanteng won the Bukit Panjang constituency for the opposition Barisan socialist in the general election of 1963 with 46.45% of the vote just a little more than I had against the incumbent PAP MP Mr. Lee Kunoy in a four cornered fight. He resigned his seat in December 1965 complaining that the PAP have ignored the principles of democracy in the interest of the party. Doesn't that sound familiar? Mr. Oni Kong is reported to have waited for his father's blessings before joining the PAP, which is something I respect. My father and I disagreed in the past about a number of things and it was good that we made peace before he passed away. So the STP's campaign is not about Mr. Ang personally. It's about a different vision for the people of Sawang and the people of Singapore. Mr. Ang will be fine whatever the result on Saturday. He bounced back after losing Aljunit in the 2011 general election and I'm sure that he's more than capable of bouncing back again if he should lose again on the 3rd of May. So vote for a better Singapore and don't worry about our talented PAP ministers. Now, over the last few days in these rallies, I've gone over the SDP's manifesto, which is built around our campaign slogan, thrive. We envision a Singapore where every citizen, and not just the rich, who live in 249,000 ft properties can thrive. For them, Singapore is a great place to thrive. The wealthy send their children to expensive preschools, spend thousands of dollars in tuition so they can ace their PSLE, get into an independent school, get sports coaching so they can excel in their CCA, then go to Harvard or Stanford and come back to run their father's business. This is a in Singapore terms a true representation of meritocracy as the egg goes. or the other smaller group who grew up in rental flats, got free tuition from ethnic self-help groups, fortunately aced the PSLE, went to a lousy school which I went to for my last two years, um got a scholarship to Oxford or Cambridge, went on to a career in the admin service, and eventually became a minister or secured a comfortable job in a GLC, eventually getting their good-class bungalow. In the eyes of many people, that is a Singapore dream as chartered by the PAP. And we do not deny that there are some people thriving in Singapore today. It's just that they seem to be a very small minority. What we want is a Singapore where everyone can thrive no matter your circumstances. Now yesterday I was at the WCara podcast recording hosted by my friend Nisam is smile and one of the other guests was the distinguished and he doesn't like to be called veteran journalist Pen Balin. He commented that none of the political parties including the PAP had provided a clear vision of what they envision Singapore to be like in the next 5 years or even further into the future. So I thanked him for his insight and I promised to deliver in the last two rallies. Well, here it goes. Now hear this. So if you elect SDP MPs in parliament, you can be assured even though there'll be a maximum of 11 in the best case scenario, we will still hold the government accountable if they fall short of our vision for Singapore. And that is a place where everyone can thrive and not just survive. If we do well in the next 5 years, who knows, in G 2030, we could put up more candidates and maybe in the future you'd get us in the position to make some of these real changes. In the meantime, as an opposition party in parliament, we'll do our job to present alternatives, to identify gaps in the current system, and to work to bring government actions closer to the people rather than what makes the elite happy. We believe that that's what the people of Singapore want and that they deserve a fair chance to do well in their lives no matter what their circumstances. So in contrast to the elite pathway I mentioned earlier where the PAP seems to select people for the privilege of thriving in the SDP's world all children would start from a good place because maternal and child health would be essentially all provided by the government with small co-ayments as in the golden era of Singapore's public health in the 1960s and 70s. During that time, the infant mortality rate plummeted, and Singapore became among the world's best places to be a mother and have a baby, all with a largely publicly funded healthcare system. In 1966, the year after I was born, Singapore had the birth quake. KK hospital had the world record for the highest number of live births in one year. And I know that's hard to believe. Can you imagine? A Singapore hospital had the highest number of births of any hospital in the world and how far we have fallen. So while most children will be born healthy, some will have disabilities and these will be looked after with comprehensive support for both their health care and developmental needs. And this will be provided by a mandatory national health insurance scheme which includes everyone and is based on risk pooling so that no one is left behind. Rare diseases will be covered by reinsurance which will also be mandatory for the insurance providers selected for inclusion after finishing a nationalized preschool education program with standard curriculum equal access to resources. The children will go to a school within walking distance of their homes. They will have a dedicated teacher who will follow them from P1 to P3 and another from P4 to P6. The teacher will have much less admin work and will be able to nurture the children in partnership with the parents with small class sizes so they can get to know the kids. There will be no more PSLE. So the kids can go to programs that suit their needs and their interests rather than have their futures determined by achievement levels in one single high stakes exam. For those who are academically inclined, this will go all the way up to the 12th year of school. Then they'll have the opportunity to go to an institute of higher learning where they'll be eligible for all the scholarships that were previously limited to foreign students and not open to Singaporeans. Once they graduate, they'd be able to compete fairly for jobs with their compatriots and have their basic rights as workers protected, including a living wage. If there are certain areas which were not covered by the local education system and were not perfect, talented foreigners could be brought in for a limited period of time to enable the local graduates to catch up and benefit from technology transfer. They will be encouraged to join small and medium-siz enterprises which would benefit from government grants and programs to allow them to compete with large multinational companies. And they would be encouraged to start a family by housing grants, preferential allocation of housing. And they could choose open market or non-open market flats depending on their long-term financial plans. They would be able to pay off their mortgages within a relatively short period of time as the cost of the flats would not include land costs. They would be free to pursue the arts and culture either in their spare time or if they choose to as a career. Singapore will once again be a regional hub of the film industry like in the days of Kathy Christ. Our sports teams will be world class like our hockey team which made it to the Melbourne Olympics in 1956. or badminton teams which repeatedly won the Thomas Cup. If the citizen is retrenched, they won't panic because they would have access to retrenchment insurance proposed by the SDP which pays them a living allowance and is insurance base part of CPF rather than a drain on the national coffers like the current PAP program. If they do retire, they will be eligible for the SDP's senior support scheme so that our seniors who built the country don't have to spend their last days cleaning toilets or collecting cardboard. Now, I know that this sounds like a kind of utopia, but it is all eminently achievable. The first generation of PAP leaders brought us close to that kind of ideal with national schools, HDB flats which could be only sold back to the HDB, very good publicly funded healthcare. But unfortunately, we lost our way and like many countries in the world, we embraced the neoliberal ideas which decided that the elites should get all the benefits and the rest of us should pay for them. We have an opportunity right now to reverse course for Singapore and to return to our democratic socialist roots. The SCP has been consistent in our values for more than 40 years. And we think that the people of Singapore share many of these values too. And we have come to the point where we can say enough is enough. We do not need to pander to the whims and fancies of those living in $88 million homes while we struggle to afford basic public housing just down the road. We have been very heartened by the responses of the from the people we have met over the years and in particular in the last few days. Many have expressed their frustrations at a government which doesn't seem to have any ideas about what to do the with the global problem of inflation short of giving vouchers and handouts. You know the minister said they give us they take a chicken wing but give a whole chicken but we're not full. We can see with our eyes what's really happening. But having said that one issue which does come up is the $1 meal. These meals are very popular and in fact just this afternoon a resident of Bukit Panjang told us that he voted us in GE 2020 but he said that the the current MP organized these $1 meals from more than a year ago and he showed me a very colorful brochure where he checked off every month as he got his $1 meal for his month. He also mentioned the HTB's home improvement program and I told him the money for those programs came from him and all Singaporeans as taxpayers and the works of the HDB and the people's association will continue regardless of who he voted for on Saturday. He seemed somewhat skeptical and at the end of the visit he said you know I like you but those $1 meals did make a difference to me and my fellow citizens. I took his point. So I did some research. As far as we can tell, the funding has been provided by the people's association which is chaired by the prime minister. But while we may not have access to these funds right now, we are confident that we can find some other way to fund this project or a better project perhaps as residents told us using some funds generated from merchants associations or other creative solutions. Or perhaps the PA may actually see the light and respect the will of the voters and appoint the elected MPs as grassroots advisor regardless of who is elected MP this Saturday. Now finally I want to make some comments about the former PM Liong's comment about the risk of losing a minister or two. The way he describes it, it sounds like these ministers went hiking in Pula Ubin and could not find their way back. What the rest of Singaporeans understand by losing ministers is that on Saturday night, the Sambawang GRC team from the SDP wins 50.1% of the vote. So what that means what that means is that you the people of Sawang and the other constituencies have decided the ministers cannot make it. They need to be replaced by someone who is more competent, more capable, and more responsive to the needs of the people. And that's what democracy is all about. If the PAP is so badly hit by the loss of these three or four individuals that they cannot function as a government, then that is a real concern for Singaporeans. Have we really put our trust in recent years in a team with so little little bench depth? That is a powerful reason to elect more opposition MPs this time so they can go head-to-head with the current PAP MPs and you can see who can do a better job for Singaporeans. This is a crucial election and the power is in your hands. Do vote without fear. Vote for change. Vote for a Singapore where everyone can thrive. Vote for the SDP. Okay. Now, there's something something special that we're going to do. So before I go off, I want to recognize an individual who embodies the values of courage, conscience, speaking out for those without a voice, and who has really gone there in the field, been there. This is Mr. Gilbert Gold. So we just want to express our thanks on behalf of the people of Singapore. Let's raise it up for him, everybody. Hey, thank you Gilbert. On behalf of the people of Singapore and any and all of humanity, thank you very much all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Paul Tambaya. Everybody Ladies and gentlemen, does Dr. Paul deserve to be in parliament? Puket Banjan residents, where are you? Will you vote for Dr. Paul to be in parliament? Remember, your vote is secret. Come third of May, please vote for Dr. Paul Tambaya to be in parliament so that he can be your voice in parliament. Are you ready to vote Dr. Paula Dr. And now ladies and gentlemen right here let us invite. If we are ready raise your flags ladies and gentlemen raise it all. I want to see it all guys. raise it all even more ladies and gentlemen right now as we bring him on ladies and gentlemen right here. Are you ready? Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Chi Sud Dr. Chi Dr. Chi Dr. is a candidate for Sambawan West SNC. Would you like to have Dr. Let's see about that in Oh my goodness. Thank you. Thank you so much. It's fantastic to see all of you here. You really bring some cheer to all of us on stage and we want to thank you so much for braving the rain and being here tonight. We've got a very important message especially for the Sambawang GRC voters as well as the ones in Sbawang West. But let me start off by taking you through some of the things that Mr. Yikong has said about the SDP. Four words that I want to use with him. Criticize first, copy later. Now, this is the PAP's favorite playbook. During elections, the PAP will slam the opposition for its alternative proposals for our ideas, but after elections, it will adopt our ideas, but it won't give any credit. Let me just cite you some examples. The P the SDP had proposed an unemployment insurance scheme to provide retrenched workers with financial assistance and support for its reemployment. We call it the reemployment scheme and temporary assistance for the retrenched. But then during 2016 in the book bi-election, Mr. Thman who was at that time deputy prime minister before he became president accused the SDP of pushing for populist policies whose idea would be costly. He slammed the SDP saying, "Don't bluff people." Eight years later, Mr. Lawrence Wong announced that the PAP would implement just such a scheme and called it the skills future job seeker support scheme. Same thing, different name. That's all. Example two, we had proposed higher income tax for the top earners to offset a reduction of the GST for basic goods. Dr. Vivian Balak Krishna at that time attacked us as and I quote the most middle class unfriendly opposition party unquote. But then in 2015 the PAP raised income taxes for the top 5% of earners. Example three, the SVP had proposed a minimum wage policy as early as 2001. Now, back then, manpower minister Limuise rejected the idea, saying that such a policy would erode Singapore's competitiveness. Then in 2012, the PAP introduced the progressive wage model, which is similar to our pro proposal. It just set the minimum wage of $1,000 for lowincome workers in selected sectors. And these are all reported in the media. It's there for all to see. There are many other examples which I don't have time to mention. And now in this election, Mr. Angong is doing the same thing. He is criticizing our policies and asking where is the money going to come from. He said that our health care proposal that would lower medical and hospitalization costs for our seniors sounds so easy and good but it is fake. She said it sounds familiar doesn't it? So may I remind you of Mr. Thman, Dr. Balak Krishnan and Mr. The limbs say first they criticize then they copy. Somehow Mr. will tell you that the SDP's proposals are useless and the PAP is the best and then he'll adopt our ideas. He really bu The most important point in all this is that the SDP has been able to get these policies implemented while we are not in parliament. Just imagine what we can do if we have SDP MPs. Now in this election we have laid out a bold clear policies all align with our bigger vision. Imagine a Singapore where happiness and well-being are the goals, not GDP growth at all cost. where success is not measured by how many foreign billionaires we can attract but by how secure and support and supported every Singaporean feels where we don't have the elderly chasing cloing I beg your pardon cleaning tables just to survive where the poor are not homeless and hungry where mental health is a national priority not an afterthought where our economy values human dignity and our government listens and responds not just during elections. Now this is not a fantasy. It's a future we can build together. Now look at Finland, a nation of just 5.5 million people, consistently ranked as the happiest country in the world. And what about us Singapore? We are ranked 35. Now what do Finnish people mean when they say they are happy? To them, happiness doesn't mean more nights at ko singing and drinking or going to shopping malls. Finnish citizens consistently report that their happiness comes from come from a system where opportunities are distributed fairly that the people trust their government to work in their interests and that every individual and citizen citizen feels value. Now Singapore can move in this direction. We must we can ex expand social s safety nets, provide universal health care, reform education to nurture critical thinkers, reduce inequality and open up policies to be more transparent and responsive. That is the SDP's vision. That is the path to a truly thriving Singapore. One where our people are secure and happy. The PAP's path, on the other hand, leads us right back to the problems we are drowning in. An unbearable cost of living, crushing mental stress, a government that gerrymanders instead of listens. We are offering you an alternative, my fellow Singaporeans. Voters of Sambawang West and Sambawang GRC maring UT and Buket Panchjang a real credible visionary alternative. We ask for your support so that we can begin building it together with you. Now, let me now turn to what we will do if you give us the honor of running the Zawang Town Council. Back in 2015, 10 years ago, we published a detailed town council management plan. It outlines what we will do in our first 30 days and then in the first 100 days of us taking over the town council. You can track our performance because we believe in accountability and we will set up robust financial systems, estate management protocols, procurement safeguards, community support systems and an IT infrastructure. We aim not just to meet current standards but to surpass them. Now, you'll find all of this clearly spelled out on our website, usdp.org. Please go in and read them. If you are a Sambawang GRC voter, Simbaang West voter, I want to ask the Sambawang GRC team back on stage and reintroduce them to Sbawang GRC voters. Brian, Alfred, James, Sarah, Dam, would you come and join me on stage? Ask their pain. Ask for Brian Lim is currently assistant director in a major government hospital. Isn't this what you always hear about PAP candidates? Director of this, director of that. Well, the SDP has just such a candidate, too. And you can count on Brian to expertly manage the Simbaang Town Council. Alfred Tan, Alfred Hails from the same alma mater as me. ACS. I think you're a few years my junior, but like all good ACS boys, Alfred is an entrepreneur with decades of leadership experience in international banking, corporate finance, and business management, not just in Singapore, but all over across in Asia. Now Alfred will oversee the finance department if and when we take control of the Sambawang Town Council. Then there is Dr. James Gomez. Dr. Gomez is a political scientist and regional director of the Asia Center, which is a think tank of political studies in Asia. Now, James, if you don't already know, was named on the list of Asia's 50 most powerful communicators by Asia Week in in 2001. He will guide the town council's policy and strategic planning. And then of course to Brian's right is Miss Sariah Akbar. SA controls the purse strings of the SDP as treasurer. She is an advocate for women's rights and community welfare known for her advocacy work on behalf of single mothers calling for benefits such as maternity leave, child care leave, and a child development account. She will naturally head our community outreach and welfare office in the town council. And of course, I've left the last the best for the last and that is Damura Abbas. Dam holds a master's in educational management from NTU as well as a bachelor's degree in architectural studies from N US. He has a longstanding commitment to youth development and education. He also served on a regional upliftment project supported by Tamasic Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a team. It's powerhouse of knowledge, heart and experience which will include Sambawang West and which I will personally lead with pride and purpose. It is a mission ready, heart-driven, battle tested team and we are ready to serve, Simong voters, I ask you to compare not just slogans but substance, not just promises. But people and when you do compare it compare them with a slate of PAP candidates. I believe that choice is clear. With the SP you will get capability, compassion and commitment. As I promised you, as I promised you, we will wake up every day with one goal to be here in Simbang walking the ground, solving problems and making your state a better place to live. We will meet you, sit with you and more importantly listen to you. We will do this through regular meet the people sessions and open town hall dialogues. All this we will do to see how we can make better represent you in parliament. You have my word. In everything we do and in every policy we consider we will be guided by one unwavering principle. Your well-being and only your well-being. So this Saturday, when you step into the voting booth, do it with pride, with purpose, and with hope in your heart. Cast your vote boldly for our Sambawang GRC team and for me in Sambawang West SMC and for Buket Panjang SMC and for muscleing UTGRC. Let's make these constituencies shine and let's make our country proud. Vote SDP. Thank you everybody. Thank you so much and good night ladies and gentlemen your Sambawang GRC and Sambawang West SMC candidates make some noise for them everybody remember your vote is secret when comes 3rd of May please cast your vote to our 11 candidates cities and send them to parliament. Let's send them to Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, our balls are behind. If Ken, please roll the ball back in front. All right, everybody. I want you to to do something because there has never been a shot like that right here for the rally. I want everybody to switch on your phone, the torch light of the phone. We are going to light the whole stage up everybody. Let's light it up everybody. And Dr. Tree is going to take a selfie guys. I'm going to experiment with this. Thank you. That's right ladies and gentlemen. Light it up everybody for some grc. Everybody shout STP. SDP SDP. SDP. SDP. SP. Do we want all 11 candidates to be voted in? Do we want Dr. G to be voted in. Do we want Dr. Paul to be voted in? Do we want Dr. Chase to be voted in? Do we want all of them to be voted in? Oh, yes. Dreaming. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. Who gets voted in? STP STP STP STP and tomorrow it will be our last day of rally. So I know a lot of y'all can't bear to leave us but we have the next five years to serve you all but tomorrow is our last day of rally. Come and support us. Come and rate where rate to come and support us. Where's the rally venue? All right over to you Hold on. Dear guys, we're going to do something. Every single video over the last 2, three days was just showing the backdrop. I want you guys one more time, ladies and gentlemen, light up your phones. Press record. Light up your phones, everybody. Everybody, light up your phones, everybody. That's right. And press record. Okay. 1 2 3. That's right, everybody. Let's light it up. Show the crowd. Everybody, let's do it together for everybody right now. SP STP STP SDP STP. Okay. Okay. Let me announce our last rally will be Sambawan West SMC. It will be at Evergreen Primary School, the one that we went the other day. So come and join us. Wear red so that we can see a sea of red. Dr. Chi will be doing his book signing in the front. For those of you who bought his books, he will be doing the autograph and photography in front. For those of you who haven't bought his book, our merchandise booth are behind. That's right. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, polling agents, we need polling agents as well. Last question. Justin, you got any you want to show? No. That's right. So, ladies and gentlemen, be safe as you make your way and your exit. Be safe. We see you tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen. Everybody have a good night's rest, everybody. And please, as you walk out, pass by the merchandise booth, get some of our merchandise and support us for this campaign. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you supporters. Thank you our media team. Thank you our man in blue. Thank you to all our volunteers whether they are here or their office working very hard for all of us. Thank you very much. Good night and stay safe. We'll see you tomorrow, 7 to 1000 p.m. Evergreen Primary School. Oh. Oh. Bye. Thank you.