money. That's my last money. That money that money Sorry, tonight I sound a little bit like Au like that residents of Arunia, Alang SMC, friends and supporters from all over Singapore. Good evening and welcome to the final workers party rally for GE 2025. So before we start with the rally, I would like to invite everyone to step forward to make sure there's enough space for people who are coming from behind. So Okay. So that I don't have to use command like and after that ask you to chapalan to move forward. You know I'm the la right? Okay before we begin there are few things that I would like everyone to take note. Firstly, we have uh there are eight portable toilets that's around the ground which is at the grand stand there for your use. And then also in case there's lightning my script say the rally will be suspended. Are y'all afraid of the lightning? Okay. Anyway, there's a small building by the side. If there's really lightning, okay, this is real lightning, not the other oneh. So, take shelter safely and orderly so that later we can continue. Okay. So, without further ado, I would like to invite the first speaker of the evening, the candidate for Aljuni GRC, Fatley Fousy. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Sirich. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Janu paste. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! done. Singapur process. Jangu Singapuri Paptor Jadi Jangi and Rasala Tulang Jangu. My fellow Singaporeans, good evening. My name is Fati. Tonight I want to talk to you about the choice you will make in two days. Two days until you decide who will represent you in parliament. Two days until you make that choice to to shape the future of Singapore. What kind of choice will you make? Let me be fair and tell you first what the PAP is selling. The PAP is trying to sell you fear. Fear that without them, Singapore stands no chance in a hostile world. Fear that if you elect us, your estate will become slums. Fear that if there are no alternative voices, the governments cannot do its job. Even fear that you will be called free riders. The PAP wants you to be afraid. Do you want to be afraid? But I see Singaporeans wanting something different in their show of support to us. Some loudly proclaimed, some quietly whispered. I see them yearning for a politics of courage and hope and hope. And I have seen courage. Courage that comes not from power or wealth or fame. My courage comes from the people behind me who have campaigned bravely. My friends who face difficult odds even before they begin but they begin away again anyway and see through no matter what. And I am convinced that we as a country will need this kind of courage more than ever to face the future. The courage to keep fighting for Singapore, whatever troubles we face. The courage to have faith in ourselves and in our fellow citizens. The courage to face our fears which limit our potential. But courage is not something we can impart just by telling someone to be brave. Courage has to be shown. We have to all step up and lead by example. If the PAP stands for a politics of fear, the workers party stands for a politics of hope. Not a blind hope, not a desperate hope, not a reckless hope. It is a careful hope born of experience, hard work, and resilience. It is the hope of building a nation where everyone can afford not just to get by, but to flourish. It is the hope that everyone belongs in this society, not just the wealthy. is it is a hope for greater accountability and transparency in our government. The workers party does not run on a politics of fear. But if there is any fear at all, then let it be that Singaporeans the fear that Singaporeans are being priced out of their own homeland. If there is fear, it is the fear that we are losing our way. Our leaders are too high in their ivory towers or too deep in their black and white bungalows. If there is fear, then we should be afraid of stagnation, of not changing as the world changes around us. But the Workers Party does not run on the politics of fear. The Workers Party stands for the hope that we do not yet know what Singaporeans are capable of. We stand for the hope that we can and we will do better, think of new ideas, push our nation forward. We stand for the hope of a truly democratic society based on justice and equality. In Singapore, to vote for the Workers Party is an act of courage. To vote for the Workers Party is an act of hope. And instead of fear, we raise to you our courage and our hopes. Remember this, your vote is secret. Last election, almost 1 million Singaporeans, 1 million courageously voted against the PAP in hope of seeing genuine change. Do you think the government can monitor everyone? In times of glo global uncertainty, the Workers Party will keep pushing the government in the right direction and work to establish Singapore's place in the new world order in the hope that we can rise today as we once did in much more difficult circumstances. So long as we have each other's back, we have nothing to fear. The areas under the Workers Party have not turned into slums. I have lived in Aljunit all my life and I know this is not true. The residents of Aljunit and Hogang have returned the workers party to parliament election after election. Would they have done so if their estates are slums? And when you vote the Workers Party, you are not free riders. You are playing an important role in reminding the government that they still have to answer to the people of Singapore. So do not let them call you free riders. Before I end, I would like to salute our supporters who have been here with us through the rallies. You are the ones who have trudged through the mud in Sang. You You are the ones who have cheered us in temples and Pongul. You are the ones who brave the rain in East Coast. And you are still here. You inspire us. The sky itself may tear with lightning. The heavens themselves may pour. But you will always stand with us working for Singapore. So do not let your vote be governed with fear. Step up with us and vote with courage. Vote for hope. Vote for the Workers Party. Thanks uh fatly for the very rousing speech. Finally today I become the teu and the fun fair. Ready my turn though. The next four speakers they are called in the workers party. So may I first invite the first one who was on the live debate on CNA, Mr. Michael Tanguang. Good evening everyone. How's everyone doing tonight? First of all, thank you to everyone for coming down despite the heavy downpour today. Aren't we all glad the sky turned blue for us? Now, before we begin, I have a very quick question for everybody here. How many of you guys are ready to vote for the Workers Party on Saturday? Now the next question is a little bit different but I hope you guys will be kind. How many of you guys here are thinking of voting for the PAP? How many of you guys are still thinking of who you might vote for? So well If you have some patience with me, I want to focus this speech for a moment on not those who are Workers Party loyalists, but on people who are actually thinking about this vote and unsure of how to tread through on Saturday. I want to speak to them and I hope everyone gives me a little bit of patience to do so because ultimately this election is about all of us. It's about all of us coming together and having the same vision for where we want Singapore going. Will you allow me to do that? So, the first thing I want to talk to this group about is one of the key reasons I keep hearing for why they may want to vote for the incumbent party. And the first argument I often hear is that, hey, I'm satisfied with the way things are. You've heard that, right? So, let's start there. I know Singapore has come a long way. I think we all must be accepting and grateful of the journey that has taken us here. But I think the question that we should ask ourselves isn't whether we're satisfied. The question we should ask ourselves is whether we can imagine more for this country, whether we can imagine better. Is that right? And can we imagine better? Now, in my past life, I worked with some of the biggest companies in the world, big, dominant, powerful companies. And here's what I saw. They were excellent at what they did. They were really top of their game. But once they got there, what happened? Growth slowed. Innovation dried up. They really stopped imagining boldly and they started protecting what they had. They rewarded the status quo not challenging, not innovating, not doing new things. Does that sound a little bit familiar to you? Now, sometimes I think of the PAP really as just a very big multinational company. They are a big ship. They move sometimes very clumsily, but they move. But they're not agile. They're not nimble. They're not able to deal with the challenges that lay ahead or creative enough to find new ways to solve them. You know, last weekend the PAP said that there's no such thing as group think within the PAP. That Yeah. that the PAP is really like the PAP of old. But let's be honest, we can see that the sky is blue, right? This is not the PAP of big, bold, forward-looking ideas. What have you gotten instead from the PAP? Let's go through that for a second. We have a government that we essentially pay, and this is true by the way, $400,000 to an external agency to figure out how to rename Marina Bay. And they come back with a name that is Marina Bay. Exactly. This is the same government that because they could not get simply go right at their first try, we have to put an additional $40 million while they figure it out. And you know this is also the same government that and I know that you know the same that I do that the only innovation that they have found to the cost of living crisis is what vouchers right that I think is the imagination of today's pap I don't think we see any of it right and so what I think they need now more than anything else is just a little hammering away from the outside. Right now, let me be clear. This really isn't about the individuals within the PAP because even brilliant people who are put in a box can't quite do their best work. And so, how do we fix that? We fix that with competition, with new ideas, with keeping them on their toes. And that's why we need every single one of you to think about voting for the Workers Party on Saturday. Is that right? Now, the second argument I often hear from this same group is that, hey, I'm kind of scared to lose what I have. I like my constituency. I like the way things are. My response is quite simple and this is also to the voters of Temp. You're not going to lose what you love. Your 5-year master plan, it's going to stay exactly where it is. Your parks, your upgrading, your programs, they will remain. But by voting for us, what happens? What happens? You will get us as your MPs, but you also get the PAP candidates that you love to become your grassroots advisers, right? You will still get the PA to run programs for you, right? So, you'll get two meet the people sessions, you'll get two national day dinners, you'll get two Haraya dinners, you will have double of everything. So, really, voting for the opposition is this buy one get one free scenario. and Aljunet can tell you that's exactly how it works. And you know, no matter how this election goes for TPS, what I know and I believe will be true is that every single vote cast for the Workers Party will ensure that the PAP works harder for you over the next 5 years, no matter what. And to me, that's great because temp wins. The last argument I've heard is that hey, we're not as good as the PAP team or we like the PAP team. Well, let's talk about the team at Temp, shall we for a second? We have Dr. who is the ex head of IMH. is going to bring incredible heart to this team. We have Jimmy who's an owner who's born and bred in T. We have Elen, former diplomat and one of the best Chinese speakers that I know. We all saw her on the Chinese round table, right? Wasn't she amazing? And of course we have Mr. Faizal who I'm sure many in aljunit are very familiar with who has served you all for 15 years and who's ready now to come forward and serve the T community. So I'm confident that this team will make Tes incredibly proud. And so I want to end with the same thing I ended my last speech on, which is to ask everybody if you are ready today to cast your vote for the Workers Party on Saturday. Are you ready? And are you ready to tell your friends and family to cast their vote for the Workers Party? Because I know and you know that we can only do this together if we all bring our friends together and that is the only way we will make a change to Singapore. Thank you everyone. Vote the Workers Party and I look forward to seeing you all for many many more years. Thank you, Michael. Before the next speaker comes on board, may I invite everyone to take a step forward because the gate is now closed. There are more people waiting to come in and they can't. Or if not on my right which is on your left there is a 10 dish inside their lights their fans. If you want to shift inside there please do so so that more people can move forward. CCF. So for the next speaker we would like to invite also Cana from Jun GRC to give us a speech. kind of please. Thank you, my fellow Singaporeans. Good evening. My name is Kenneth Tong. I am running to be your MP in Aljunet GRC. There's a feeling in the air, a feeling of unease. When I talk and with so many of you over the last few years, I feel your unease. It is the unease when the cost of food grows faster than our salaries. The unease when with car ownership out of reach, the cost of public transportation climbs as its reliability falls. The unease when we miss out again on a BTO exercise and see skyrocketing rents and HDB resale prices. It's unease about the job market. If we get retrenched, how easily can we find another job? Unease when we send out hundreds of resumes on LinkedIn and job street without any response. Fearing the next restructuring, wondering if our skills will still be valued next year, seeing our capable fresh grads struggling to find a job. This unease cuts across race, language, religion, or age. We further worry about the future of Singapore which faces two clear challenges. First, the technology revolution. Is Singapore going to be a driver or a passenger? The risk is that we become content as fast adopters consuming technology developed elsewhere rather than driving, developing, producing it ourselves. This pushes our own talent overseas to where the action and revolution feels more real. Second, a changing world order, protectionism, trade wars, real wars. Navigating this requires foresight, ability, thoughtfulness, and a focus on strengthening our own capabilities. We often hear criticisms of Singaporeans taking the safe way out, not innovative enough. When I think hear that, I think about how unfair it is to us. Let me ask you, how inclined are you to take risk if there is not much of a safety net if you fail? When you have to juggle high cost of living, mortgage payments, and child care expenses. When the sandwich generation must do caregiving both for aging parents, and growing children without family care leave or flexible childare leave. All my life I have believed in Singaporeans ability to lead. It is the ethos of our society. Hardworking, resourceful, ethical. Since independence, the PAP has said Singapore has no resources except its people. We Singaporeans are exceptional, but we need people to believe in us and are prepared to support us to the hilt to help pick us up to walk again when we fall. Singapore needs such politicians. If elected, I will be such politician. The first shift we need is a real safety net, a stronger foundation. The Workers Party has consistently pushed for this foundation. Unemployment support, mandatory retrenchment benefits, a national minimum wage enforced by the state, independent unions to speak up fearlessly for your workplace rights, strong workplace fairness laws to protect all against discrimination and not just some. It's about dignity, security, and giving our people the breathing room to look beyond mere survival. It's about giving Singaporeans the bandwidth and stomach to take risk, to pursue ideas and dreams that drive us in our youth to enable to us to be who we can be rather than to settle. Once that foundation is built, it will support the recognition of our Singaporean economic engine. We're making Singapore into a technology and innovation leader. We need an economy that works for us, where we nurture our own dreams. I spent all my working life in the private sector in finance, consulting and technology. I know the problems of our private sectors and I deeply want to see us succeed. We must put the foundations in place for an innovationdriven economy on innovation. I don't want to give you all motherhood statements. So, let me be really specific about the sorts of questions I intend to pursue. Question one. Since 1990, we have invested tens of billions in R&amp;D. Yet, after more than 30 years and immense spending, where are the deep tech success stories built directly on this R&amp;D? Not one R&amp;D has gone for a billion dollar IPO. Not one R&amp;D company has achieved major global scale commercial success. This kind of 30-year track record in R&amp;D is just not good enough for the people of Singapore. What has gone wrong in translating our R&amp;D policies into worldbeating enterprise? I will pursue this question relentlessly. Question two, where are our domestic growth engines of today? I struggle to see them. It's not just about being a small country. Denmark has 5.9 million people similar to Singapore. It has Lego which many of us buy for our kids as I do and adults. It has Novo Nordisk makers of the obesity 100 drug OMIC. What comparable giants built on foundational capabilities do we have? The lack of comparable giants isn't accidental. It reflects an ideology, an establishment ideology that is willing at the first sign of stormy waters to sell out strategic national assets built over decades to foreign players, chartered semiconductor in 2009, Neptune Oran lines in 2015, and last They tried to sell out again NTU income to alian but fortunately many people in Singapore stood up and made their voices heard. Otherwise I am sure this bad deal would have gone through. What are the right policies? Growing Singaporean champions or finding the highest foreign bidder for them? For me, what was so troubling about the attempt to sell NTU income was the message that nothing is sacred that valuable domestic entities could be sold for short-term financial reasons, leaving less for future generations to build upon. That we have leaders who know the price of everything and the value of nothing. That's why I have little hope for Singapore's ability to create our own growth engines with the PAP calling all the shots. I have a different view. We must grow our own domestic enterprises. We must champion the primacy of our local enterprise. If Singaporeans are to lead globally, we need this instruments significantly rooted in our control. So I ask you to reject an ideology that seems too ready to sell out and instead embrace a philosophy of focused on growing our own. So if elected, I will champion three things. First, making Singapore a leader in innovation, creating great jobs right here. Second, strengthening economic security and fairness for every Singaporean family. Third, fighting for strong family foundations, affordable public housing, the highest education standards for every child, and giving our Singaporean families, including lowerincome citizens with foreign spouses, the support they need for family formation. Allow me to say a few words in Mandrin. Okay. for This year, 2025 marks a quartermark of the 21st century. I humbly ask you, the people of Singapore, to lead, lead us with your vote into a better age, with a more balanced political system. Vote the party building strong foundations for our shared future. The party always working for Singapore. Vote the Workers Party. Kenneth, thank you Kenneth. So before the next speaker comes on board, can I again get everyone to take a step forward and if you may move into the tent on my right so that more people can come into the venue. Thank you. Okay. The next speaker that will be joining us, Dr. Angry Bing of Temp GRC this year. My fellow Singaporeans and residents of Temp GRC, a very good evening to you. I am Dr. Angluing, a psychologist by training, a public servant by calling and today I stand before you as the candidate for workers party. I have spent my entire career helping people grow, helping families heal, helping young people thrive. I believe that when people are supported, they soar. And I believe Temps also soar into the clear blue sky. Residents of Tanis, you have built a strong community, one that is full of heart, full of resilience, full of pride, one that makes Fisal's melting heart syndrome spread to all of us. As a psychologist, I understand people. I listen before I act. I listen and I act. I solve problems with care and empathy. I focus on long-term solutions and not just quick fixes. That's what I want to bring to you together with Faizal, Elen, Jimmy, and Michael as your future MPs and voices in parliament. These are our four pleasures to make Tony's better together with you. One, building stronger communities. We will champion more inclusive spaces for our seniors, for our youth, for every resident. Let's make every block feels like home. Two, responsive services. Let's make town management more responsive, quicker updates, co-creating solutions, cleaner, greener spaces because you deserve it. Three, creating wellness that matters. Mental wellness is not a luxury. It is a necessity. Let's bring the Kong spirit into temp. Let's build neighborhoods where people feel safe, listened to, and cared for. Four, being a listening leader. We don't believe in talking at people. We believe in listening to people. Your voice will shape how we serve. Your feedback will guide our actions. Make no doubts about this. We are not here to argue or attack. We are here to offer ideas, fresh thinking, balanced perspectives. That's what the workers parties stand for. We don't just check the government. We help build this country. by bringing new voices into the conversation. Voices like yours. Residents of Temp, you deserve more than a vote. You deserve a voice. You deserve a seat at the parliamentary table. You deserve a future you help shape. And we are ready to work with you to build that future. A future where every child has a chance. A future where every seniors feel safe and connected. And a future where every residents feels proud to call this place home. My fellow Singaporeans, Singapore has come far. Let's bring it further with kindness, with courage, with balance. Residents of Tan, make your vote count. Vote for partnership. Vote for possibilities. Vote for the Workers Party who is always working for you, working for Tamilies and working for Singapore. Thank you. Together with Faizal, Elen, Jimmy, and Michael, we are ready to listen, serve, and fight for you. And building an inclusive, fair, happy, and a better Ton and Singapore is what my team stands for. Thank you very much. Thank you Dr. Now we come to these person 5 years back ask you not to give pap a blank check you did exactly that Singapore here is Jamus may I invite is Jamus on stage now thank Good evening Aljunit and Alang. Let me start. Thank you. Let me start by telling you a story about the woman who raised me as a child. My maternal grandmother was born between the first and second world wars. She was a teenager when the Japanese invaded our country and a single mother with 11 children. By the time we gain independence, through much of her golden years, she had only known one ruling party, the PAP. Having grown up in a different era, she would not have understood why anyone, let alone her eldest grandchild, would ever wish to join politics and especially the opposition. I imagine my conversation with her to explain my decision will be difficult and more difficult given my 5-year-old hockey and vocabulary. But for me and perhaps for you, it will go like this. A a weapon. Singapore. Now, as it turns out, in 2020, thanks to the good people of Sinkang, I did end up as a politician with the Workers Party. And that road has not been easy. We are ridiculed and attacked in Parliament and online. When things go wrong in our estates, we may be bered by residents and justifiably so. Unlike the PAP, we have little career upside. We are not typically invited to boards of directors, nor are we part of advisory committees for national bodies. Invitations to speak may be mysteriously retracted. Even our work among the people we serve is tough. We can't gather at the community centers or participate in other PA organized events in our wards. or preside over citizenship and award ceremonies for our own residents. To be clear, I do not share these experiences for sympathy or to stir anger. They are simply our reality which we must accept if we wish to play the role as a loyal opposition to Singapore. Those who contest under the banner of the opposition do what we do not because of the benefits associated with the job but in spite of their absence. We do it not because we hate the PAP but because we love our country and we want to see it unfold in an alltogether different way. And I believe we are needed. We are needed as a check and balance. The events of the past 5 years alone are reminders of how even the most well-meaning government can benefit from careful scrutiny and thoughtful inquiry. We saw a minister convicted for impropriety. We endured repeated breakdowns of the public transport system, trace together use for purposes that it was not intended for, and inadvertent release of our NIC numbers and the bungled sale of NTU income to alian. Without an opposition presence in parliament, far fewer inconvenient questions would have been asked. Fewer debates over course corrections and policy errors would have occurred and mistakes made by the government would not have been held to account in the same way. We are needed for alternative ideas. Proposals that the Workers Party has championed have made their way into policies over time. We were at the forefront of calling for financial support for unemployed workers and greater flexibility for how we realize better work life balance. We have advocated for tongs in the workplace, higher pay for national servicemen and better protection for scam victims. These are now in some form or another after policy rebranding. They are reality. Now, some may criticize us for trying to claim credit, but those have been our longstanding positions which we have documented in many festos past and gone to prior polls with. Many have been repeatedly rejected by the government until they were not. But most importantly, regardless of who came up with these policy ideas, Singaporeans are now better off with them in place than without. And we are needed for a true diversity of voices. The policy, ideas, and positions we push for only emerge because of genuine representation, not only by race or religion or gender, but also by political affinity and philosophy. No modern democracy can survive and thrive when the world views of only one end of the political spectrum are captured. It is not only nice to have but absolutely essential because only truly different and alternative viewpoints will help us find better solutions not just for the problems of yesterday but for the challenges of tomorrow. The Workers Party has been that voice for those who have otherwise been voiceless, neglected, and forgotten. We have stood for labor in an economy where the weight of capital is often dominant and taken for granted. We have pleaded for more attention to the plight of the poor and downtrodden in our society. And we have taken up the cause of small and marginalized groups because we believe in the fundamental rights of each and every Singaporean. This is what a united Singapore truly needs. We need a better balance in our politics. On May 3rd, let your voices ring throughout Singapore. Vote for those that truly speak up for you rather than those that hide behind their party whip. Vote for the genuine hope, not begrudging acceptance of some broken system. Vote for a better tomorrow. Not just for you, but for your children. Step up and vote for the party that works for you. Step up and vote for the workers party. Gamia Alang, Gamia Aljun, Gamia Sing, and Gamia Singapore. Thanks. Uh Jamus, the next speaker coming on board, joining us for the first time in this election. She's now known as the little chili party in our team and she's none other Chong Pan. Thank you. Good evening residents of Aljunit and Alang. workers party supporters and my fellow Singaporeans and of course residents of Tan GRC. My name is Elen and tonight I want to reflect on what has been a roller coaster of a campaign period. What a journey it has been and thank you Tan. As I look out and see the crowd gathered here this evening, I'm reminded of my favorite NDP song, The Road Ahead. But Pay, I cannot sing it due to permit restrictions. Yeah, we canong. But on a more serious note, the message in that song is what I want to talk about tonight. It is about the path that we have taken and what lies ahead. It's about your voice and voices of our friends. It's about our role and our duty to work hand in hand to find solutions that work for all of us. But how do we find these solutions? Since one of my favorite subjects in school was history, I say we start by looking at our past. Now, are you all familiar with the Singapore story? Yes. Our nation's progress came through hard work and difficult choices. Our first generation of leaders sometimes had fierce arguments due to differences in opinions. But they respected each other and their purpose was always to reach the best decision for Singapore. And so they made bold choices. Choices that enable us to live the lives that we are living today. It is with this same spirit and tenacity that workers party MPs speak in parliament on behalf of Singaporeans. We call for more financial support for the volunt involuntarily unemployed so that they are supported as they navigate the changing employment landscape. We champion flexible work arrangements for all and more shared parental leave. So we give families time to nurture those who matter the most. We urge the expansion of the public rental scheme and reduction of BTO waiting times because we believe that every family deserves not just shelter but a place to call home. Now, these are just some of the many examples of how when good ideas find their way into policy, we all win. It is not about who says it first. It is about keeping the conversation going so we have thoughtful debates about the merits of these ideas so they turn into meaningful action and effective solutions. As we go into the polls on the 3rd of May, I hope to leave you with a question. How can Singapore continue to improve? I say with hard work and difficult conversations. With honesty, not evasion. After all, we did it before and we'll do it again. Am I right? Like Fly said, the road ahead will require courage. Courage to listen to different voices. Courage to vote for the Singapore that you want to see. Your vote is not just about the next five years. It is about the kind of Singapore that we want our children to grow up in. Together, we can build a Singapore that honors our past while boldly embracing the future. Votes for the Workers Party. Working for Singapore. Thank you. Thanks, Elen. Speak to her more and you'll find out why she's called a Chile party soon. Okay, next we the next speaker will invite um Mr. Gerald Gam, the candidate for Arjun GRC Yen Song here. I'd like to wish all workers of Singapore a very happy Labor Day. Residents of Aljin, Alang and Sang. Five years ago, you gave the Workers Party the privilege to serve you. To all our dear residents, thank you for walking with us. Tonight I would like to report on what we have achieved together and explain why we are ready to go further to serve in Pongol, Tony, East Coast, Jalan Caillou and Tines Chunkat if you give us that chance. All the candidates for Aljin and Algang, Pritam Singh, Sylvia Lim, Dennis Tan, Fadi Fai, Kenneth Tyong and myself have served as town counselors in Aljun Alang Town Council. Abdul Muimin, our candidate for St. Kang is currently a senior property manager for projects and lives in the town council. Unlike most PAP town councils, AHTC and Sinkong Town Council are directly managed by our own town counselors and staff, not managing agents. We are hands-on with real experience solving daily challenges of town management. Despite rising costs across the board, both town councils ended last term on solid financial footing. Both also received all green ratings in NM andD's latest town council management report. Three results are not just numbers. They reflect the hard work and professionalism of our town council staff and the cooperation of residents who care deeply about our neighborhoods. We have plans to upgrade linkways, playgrounds, and lifts and make your town more livable for all. To voters outside our Junit, Alang and Sang, come take a walk through our towns. Talk to your friends living here. You'll find that WP run estates are clean, orderly, and quietly wellmanaged. When you vote for WP candidates, you are not just choosing town managers. You are electing voices who will speak up for you in parliament without being bound by the government whip. What is the government whip? The government whip requires PAP MPs to vote with their party even if they personally disagree. You may have heard of the PAP candidates say our unit has 14 has had 14 years without a PAP voice. But let's get real. Singaporeans already hear the PAP voice every day. The PAP held almost 90% of elected seats in the last term of parliament. Their ministers are featured daily in the news. The PAP voice is loud and ever present. What is missing is your voice. A voice that asks tough questions, that proposes alternatives, that speaks up for you even when it's inconvenient for the government. That is the voice of the Workers Party. That is the voice that we offer. In Parliament, we have spoken up on issues that matter to you. Cost of living, job security, housing affordability, health care, and caregiver support. We have called for stronger worker protections, greater transparency, and more accountability, and some of these efforts have eventually helped shape policy. Before I go on, let me address something that still weighs on some voters minds. The secrecy of your vote. I want to assure you, your vote is secret. I have contested four general elections and I followed the entire voting process end to end until the incineration of the ballot papers. At every stage, safeguards are in place to protect the secrecy of your vote. So when you go to the polling station on March the 3rd, on May the 3rd, vote with your heart. Vote with confidence because no one will ever know how you voted. Let me address three more fallacies you may have heard during this campaign so you can vote with greater clarity. Fallacy number one, a stronger opposition will weaken the government. What is a weak government? A weak government is one that cannot pass laws without opposition support. That means winning fewer than half the seats in parliament. Is that even possible in this election? In GE 2020, the PAP won 83 out of 93 seats. WP won just 10. No other opposition party has won an elected seat after 2006. This time WP is contesting just 26 seats. Even if we win them all, the PAP would still hold a super majority with 71 seats, well above the 49 seats needed to form the government. Singapore will not end up with a weak or unstable government. Fallacy number two, more opposition means more fighting in parliament. We do not fight, shout or name call in parliament. We debate with facts and logic. Yes, debates may last longer, but that's how ministers are held accountable and how policies are improved. Even with a stronger workers party presence, the PAP will be able to pass any law or constitutional amendment. What a stronger workers party gives you is better scrutiny and a more responsive government. Fallacy number three. The opposition is only talk. WP has been running town councils for 34 years. For the past 5 years, we have cleaned and maintained all HGB estates in Aljuni, Alang and Sang. We run house visits, meet the people sessions and events with our dedicated volunteers, many of whom are here tonight. We do all this without the $634 million budget that the people's association has, which PAP MPs and defeated candidates can tap on. During the CO 19 crisis, we stepped up to work with the government and kept our residents informed and supported. That is not just talk. But yes, we do talk in parliament. That is our job. And we have punched above our weight in numbers. In the last 5 years, our eight WP MPs asked more than 2,300 parliamentary questions, debated 45 bills and motions, and sought clarification on 34 ministerial statements, including the Routt Road case. the ACRA NRIC issue and the income insurance bid from Alian. This is what you get when you elect a serious responsible opposition. Now we are ready to do more. We are fielding candidates who are qualified, grounded and committed to serving you. Give them your trust and they will serve with dedication and heart. If you have friends or family who are still undecided, share with them what you have seen, heard, or felt tonight. Forward our social media posts. Tell them why a vote for the Workers Party is a vote for a more balanced parliament and a better Singapore. Let us build on what we have achieved in Aljuna Along and Sang Kang and take the next step to send a clear message from Pongol, T East Coast, Jalan Caillou and Tank that Singapore wants a parliament that listens and a rational, responsible and credible opposition. That's what the Workers Party is ready to serve on May the 3. Let's make history together. Vote for the Workers Party. Vote for the party that is working for Singapore. Thanks Gary for the very rousing speech. I think Gerald is right. We don't go into the parliament to fight with the PAP. I'm a soldier for the past 20 years. We will fight the aggressor, but in parliament we will defend your rights. Now next we have a very special speaker. Now may we invite the candidate for Sang GRC Luis. Thank you. Yeah. Go. Fore! Fore! Fore! Foreign Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Singapore. kiss you. Okay. Okay. foreign. For those who are behind, sorry, can you try to move in a little bit because there are still some more people waiting to come into the stadium to join us. Thank you very much. National day. Okay. Next um this speaker which I admire a lot has given 15 years of his life to serving the residents in Ajuni GRC Kakibid. He is my model. He is now leading a team to contest in Temp GRC. May I invite Mr. Faizal Ma on stage now? Thank you. Fire up. Fire up. Fire up. Fire up. Hey, good evening. Salam allayikum. May peace be upon you. Okay. Fellow Singaporeans, thank you so much for attending WP rallies for the past one week regardless of the erratic weather conditions and tonight the heaven has been very kind to us. Give us a very cool night. Right. Okay. Since the first day of campaigning until today, which is the last day, I've met several temp voters who have yet to decide who to vote as they need some clarity on a number of issues. So tonight I'm going to address uh some of the issues which has been uh forwarded to me. Among these concerns are municipal matters and projects, one two community or grassroot activities and three as what Jon mentioned earlier is about vote secrecy. Fellow Singaporeans on municipal matters, me and my team members will ask what are our plans for Tempin Town and secondly what will happen to the future town plans that were shared by the incumbents. They asked will it be not executed or will be aborted? on the plan that has been shared by the incumbents for me and my team members. The first thing that we need to do is to review to see whether there's a need to implement the plans that have been shared and if necessary we may need to tweak or change and if we deem everything is okay we will proceed with the plans. Frankly being a responsible political party at this point in time we may or may not be able to implement the pen in terms of we have yet to look at the layout of the town as well as consult the residents of their needs. However, what I can assure the residents of Tempin GRC as well as the other constituents where WP is contesting is that we have the expertise and experiences of running town councils. Fellow Singaporeans, WP had managed Hogang for 34 years. Aunate, how many years? 14 years. And S Kang, how many years? Five years and many more good years to come. Personally, I've been an elected town counselor of AHTC for 14 years and had assumed the HTC chairmanship for 3 years from 2018 to 2021. I would also like to share and highlight that both Aldonet Hogan and Sank Town Council did well in the Ministry of National Development M andD Town Council Management Report or in short known as TCMR where we got green bending for all the categories for year 2024 as well as for the past few years and this includes estate cleanliness and estate management. on the promised project by the incumbent where some may belongs to the government agencies such as LTA and parks and HDB. There is no reason for not continuing with these projects as these agencies are public agencies and their projects are to benefit the residents across Singapore regardless of whether the town is under the management of whichever political parties. If elected, we will continue to work with the reverend government agencies to ensure the continuity in executing these projects that has been announced. Fellow Singaporean, as mentioned earlier, grassroot or community programs and events is the other concern. Will the resident be affected? Recently, one ruling party candidate tried his best to explain and convince the public that 1 + 1 may not be equal to two. 1 + 1 was the what's the answer? Uh but this particular PP candidate mentioned that may not be two. Okay. Okay. This was said in the context of if residents of a constituency voted voted in an opposition candidate, they may or may not be able to benefit the services of the losing ruling party candidate. I disagree with this claim. In this context, my mathematical calculation is if a WP candidate is voted in as the MP for a constituency, the calculation instead will be 1 + 1 + 1 which equals to yes three. Okay, let me explain. Let me explain by citing the real example of how residents in an opposition w benefited from three entities or party serving them. In my khaki buket ward of Arjunate GRC myself as the MP even though with limited resources and funds I will do my best or I've done my best or I did my best to bring in partners be NOS's companies doing their CSR VWOS individuals or private group donors to bless my residents with food rations household items and other needs. So this is one party which is me. Okay. I bring benefits to the residents of Khaki buket. The people association in the form of kakibet committee club and the resident committees or rc's also organize programs and provide various assistance schemes for kakibuket residents. So two entities me and PA right serving the residents of Khaki buket two 1 + 1 equal to okay one more coming and the third one the khaki bouet pap branch also renders assistant to the residents in the attempt to win over the hearts of kaki buket residents but they failed to win their hearts right because they've been there for 14 years. This is how fortunate residents who live in a workers party health constituency. Everybody is competing. Workers party MP, PA and PAP are competing to serve the residents. voted the workers party to be their voices in parliament at the same time they're being served on the ground again by the WP pap and people's association so apart from us being voted in to be the voice in parliament the kak buket residents are being served by WP pap and PA on the ground so total how many better or Those living in the PAP constituency, how many people are serving them? Huh? Have to be fair to them. Two. Two. Two. Okay. Two. Have to be fair. Okay. But for us is Yes. Not enough. Not enough. Not enough. Okay. Apart from being served by three entities as I mentioned just now kaki buket resident also enjoyed double events for festive celebration two higher events two Christmas parties two Chinese year dinners two events Okay, you're most welcome. But I won't be there for now. I be moving to Tin very soon. Okay. Okay. Due to this privilege and pampering the Alunate especially the Kakibet constituents for the last two general election refused to repent. They refuse to repent and continue to vote for the workers party. Why do they need why don't they need to repent? Because instead of getting two, they got three. Sorry, pardon for my mandarin. Okay. The third uh issue is about vote secrecy which I believe earlier Gerald has already explained and touched on but I like to repeat because it's very important. Okay. So unfortunately there are still several Singaporeans who are still concerned about their vote is secret or not. What do you all think? Is that secret? Is that secret? Okay. To those who still have such concerns, I'm here to assure you that your vote is indeed secret. No need to fear. Remove the fear from your heart. If you don't believe me, you can ask the residents of Hogang. 34 years under WP als 14 years. How many years? Can ask them whether they ever been penalized for voting for the workers party? No. Right. Okay. For those who have yet to decide which political party to vote, I have one advice for you. My advice is when you about to put the cross on the ballot paper on 3rd May, close your eyes and focus on your heart. Let your heart directs you to where to place the axe. And the saying goes, our hearts never lie. Yes. Our hearts never lie. Right. Yeah. Especially when one is sincere and genuine in wanting to achieve happiness, prosperity, and progress for our nation. Fellow Singaporeans, come third May. Wait, I take out my pen. Where's my pen? Okay. Okay. Sorry, I don't have a pen. The pen in your hand and also there's a chalk. Okay. It's mightier. Okay. Thank you. And it's mightier than the sword. Where you place the cross will decide your fate as well as the fate of your future generations. So whether you use the pen or the chop, it's still mightier than the sword, right? As you see, I'm sweating quite a lot. So I think I to end my speech quite soon. If not, I going to get dehydrated. Okay, finally before I end my speech, I would like to give all of you one update. I would like to update on you what happened to me since last Saturday, five days ago, where I shared about the tingling sensation that I had in my chest area. Just an update, another good news. The good news is the heat of campaigning and the warmth from the hearts shoulder petting handshakes and best wishes from thousands of Tempin GRC residents had not had not only melted my heart but also my body fats. Indeed, I've lost about four to 5 kilograms. a good free weight loss program. I also believe that probably my chole cholesterol level also probably reduced significantly. Okay. My heartfelt thanks to you all of the residents of Tempine GRC for turning me into a healthier person. I hope the Temp GRC residents can keep me and my teammates healthier by voting us so that we can work harder and harder and harder together in serving you residents of the GRC serving you for the next five years as your elected representatives. vote for the workers party working for Singapore and me and my team will work hard for Tempest GRC. Thank you. Heat. Heat. Thanks. Uh, thanks Mr. Faizal. I got to step out a bit because here got all his sweat on the platform. You know where all the 5 kg goes to, right? Yeah. So before I invite the next speaker on stage, I would like to invite all of you to give a round of applause to all these amazing women that's behind me that's willing to sacrifice their life, their time, their family time to stand for Singapore. Please why why I'm doing that is because the next person I'm going to invite on stage to do the speech she have to juggle between three children at home being the chairman of the town council and elected MP but yet she have done a very good job over the past five years she's none other than Bingru candidate for PRC. Good evening, fellow Singaporeans. and roll. Thank you. As we reach the end of our campaign, I have been reflecting on what is important. I have been thinking about the work we've done in parliament. in the town council and in the neighborhood in Sang. The last five years have been an incredible journey, one in which every day was a learning experience, a chance to discover more about the country we call home. I have also been thinking about the PAP who regardless of the outcome in the areas that the WP contests in will become the government once more when the votes are counted on polling day on Saturday. And the truth is people who disagree with us, they are not our enemies. People who disagree with us are also our neighbors, our friends, our family members. But most importantly, they are also our fellow Singaporeans. They too want Singapore to succeed. Yet when push comes to shove, we must feel free to challenge the PAP's view of how Singapore moves forward beyond our 60th year because this is our story and we must write it together with you with our fellow Singaporeans. But even before parliament was dissolved, we heard the narrative that the world is changing and how uncertainty means we need a strong government in place. But we Singaporeans, we do not forget that just 5 years ago, a global pandemic hit. Then we were confined to our homes. Businesses were forced to scramble to deal with border closures and supply chain disruptions. We held our general elections then amidst that uncertainty. And Singaporeans made their voices clear at the ballot box. Singaporeans voted for a loyal, responsible opposition to be elected into parliament to make sure that our voices were heard. The Workers Party's record speaks for itself. Even with a pandemic raging, we stood up before the government to scrutinize their policies. Where the policies put before us move Singapore forward, we supported them. And where we saw room for change, where we believe we were moving in the wrong direction, we spoke out. So when the world changes, we must not fear. Every morning we wake up to a new day with new challenges. Yet we do not fear waking up because when we apply our strengths, when we work hard, we can overcome. And this is our promise to you that when that next challenge comes, the Workers Party will step up. If elected into Parliament again, we will not stay seated when there are tough questions to be asked. We will not remain sitting and vote with the PAP when we are moving in the wrong direction. But we could not have gotten this far with the volunteers that we have with us. This tireless team who lift us up when times are hard. Who pitch in and give up their family lives and free time and who stick with us through the crazy ups and downs. who stick with us even when there are no rewards for them beyond knowing that we together are the village who helps keep each other going. And for that I would like everyone to join us in thanking our incredible team behind us. I would like to close on a more personal note tonight. Through the last nine days of the campaign, my children have asked so many questions about why my work is so busy now. They want to know what it is that I am working for. And even when I hug them tight before I leave the house or I creep back into the room in the dark at night, afraid to wake them up, I whisper to them that I am doing this because I want to do my part to write our story of the Singapore they will inherit. Those that came before us and landed on these shores also faced an uncertain future. Many of them, like my grandparents, came here seeking a better life, a better future for themselves and their children. They did not know what awaited them, the uncertainties that they would face. But my grandparents, like so many of our pioneers that paved the path before us, decided to be brave and write their story. They got on that rocky boat and journeyed off into the unknown. They came here to create a future for themselves, for their children. And while they probably did not think about it at that time, they came here to write a story for me. And we too, like the pioneers that came before us, we too can decide to write our story. Our story can be one where my colleagues and I in the workers party will continue to make the PAP work harder for Singapore. It will be a story that even when the going gets tough, we will not sit behind our vouchers and not speak out. So come 3rd of May, join us to write the next chapter of Singapore's story together. Come 3rd of May, let us write this story. It is our story. We will write it with love. We will write it with hope. We will write it together. Working for our Singapore. Thank you. Thanks. Before I invite the next speaker, may I just ask everyone to just move one step forward? Just one step. Especially those who are behind. There are still a lot of people behind that's waiting to come in. So just one step. people say here says here the next speaker I don't know how he got his energy I almost see him in the estate working the estate on a daily basis this is one of the most hardworking man I've seen in the workers party again what's his name you all know team. This is none other than the candidate for our SMC, Mr. Dennis Han. Dear voters of Alang SMC and fellow Singaporeans, a very good evening to all of you. This is Aang and Alang welcomes all of you. I am Dennis Stanley Fong, the candidate for Alang SMC, serving you in Alang for the past five years. Let me start by speaking in Malay. Not very good. Please bear with me. And sabagota parliament say moan rambut kaki sia bajanji akan babaki kapada And sa dantech. GSD. GSD. for DSD. Thank who guys CDC voucher GST voucher key. See you. I think that I think there's a emergency over there. We'll just pause for a while. We have time tonight. Bear with us. Please give space if we need to. Please give space. Wish our friend well. location. location. All right. Okay. Let me continue. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Pay her eye. One way Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Campion I General Fore! Foreign! Foreign! forchech. The ch the W and the T Waning waning shout out. Dear residents of Alang, I would like to thank all of you my dear Alang residents for the huge support you have given me over the past five years. It is indeed a great privilege and honor to serve and work alongside our Alang residents. Many of you have been very kind to me. Thank you from the bottom of my heart. In the past 5 years, I have tried to be on the ground every day. I have tried. I have spent time talking to many of you in the coffee shop, in your void decks. I have taken time to do house visits in our HTB blocks and in our private estates immediately after the last general election. I have met and spoken to many of you, got to know many of you who cared to talk to me. Thank you for our condo residents. I have tried to make myself available to all your condo management councils. If they need any advice or assistance, they can contact me. I am in touch with the management councils for the majority of the condos in our gang and have visited many of the condos. For the remaining condos, if reelected, I remain available to your management councils and residents. And I hope to visit you in your condo if your management allow me to to ask your management. I would also like to thank our Alang residents for your feedback to me every day. Many of you spoke to me in my daily walks around a you have called WhatsApp and email me. Your feedback and cooperation enable me and our town council team to work closely with you, our residents, to keep our estate clean and green. I'm very sorry for the times when our services may not live up to the satisfaction of some of you, but I believe there will always be room for improvement. I always tell my team in the town council, we must always learn from our experience, do our best and continue to improve. Along residents, over the past five years, many of you have sent feedback to me on many important policy issues such as cost of living, healthcare cost and subsidy challenges during COVID, employment issues, housing issues, so on and so forth. Your feedback allow me to convey allow me to carry your voice for these issues in parliament. In fact, I al have also had the chance to voice some of the municipal feedback from you in parliament such as improving bus service 112 lifts for overhead bridges. lift upgrading program for flats without same floor access. Something I'm not happy about. And your concerns with preserving the nice, lovely green spaces behind the Suran Park connector along Alang Avenue 7. I have asked the government to try to preserve as much of the green spaces as possible and I will continue to do so. Thank you very much for all your feedback. They are very important to me. It helps me in my role to represent you and carry your voice to parliament. If reelected, I will continue to press the government authorities for increase in the number of trips during off peak hours for bus 112. of peak hours because our school children when they finish school that is considered nonopic for the bus services for LTA just for example and I will ask continue to ask for additional service to ply alkang avenue 7 dear residents when I took over from Mr. 5 years ago, our Aang HTV estate was already busy with different upgrading programs. In the past 5 years, upgrading and improvement projects have continued nonstop. For example, neighborhood re renewal programs or repainting and redecoration programs have been carried out in our HTB precincts at Alhang Avenue 2, 3,5 and 7. There were also home improvement projects by HTB. Such projects will continue in other precincts in the next term. Many shelter drop offs and walkways have been built along with playgrounds and fitness station. We have carefully planned and built an extended shelter network stretching from Tempen Road to the junction of Alkang Avenue 7 and Avenue 8 opposite Nativity Church. The town council and I have also started with our consultant on the neighborhood renewal project for Alang Central. I am so excited with the plans which include shelter drop off, new playgrounds and shelter walkways. I hope to personally ensure and see to the plans coming to fruition for our dear Alang central residents. We will continue to draw on CIPC funding for further improvements. Recent projects included the newly opened walkway from block 334 to block 365B Algang Meadow enabling our residents from the older and the newer newer part of the estate to visit both site and use the amenities. the extension. There is also the extension of the cover walkway from block 704 over there to the bus stop along the main road, upper Sangun Road outside this junior college. There is more work to be done and I hope our residents will give your vote to me to continue to serve you in a few days ago. A few days ago, a resident reminded me that Alang must remain the beacon of democracy in Singapore. Something I have said in the last general election. It is an important reminder not just to our gang but to the rest of Singapore. Another young resident spoke to me during my house visits a few days ago and he said that he'll continue to vote for the workers party to keep the government on their toes so that they will work harder for Singaporeans, for all of you, all of us. It's amazing that a resident reminds me of this. So I always do salute our Akang residents. Indeed, since 1991, many Alang residents understand more than anyone else in Singapore the need for alternative voice in parliament. With the greatest respect to my opponent, one more PAP MP in parliament will not make a difference. I and my fellow WP MPPs, Workers Party MPs, voted against the GST increase in 2022, which subsequently contributed to the spiraling cost of living increases in Singapore. What did the PAP MPs do? They supported the GSC increase. Remember that. Remember that all of you right from Temp East coast, from Pongo, from Jalanka, from all over Singapore. Remember that when you cast your vote on 3rd of May, think about that last few years all the cost of living increases. Think about that. They all voted for the GST increase. BAP Fellow Singaporeans, at such a time like this with global uncertainties and challenges, it is even more important for us to have more heads with different ideas in parliament rather than every having one team speaking from the same script singing the same song. Workers party MPs were outnumbered. one is to nine in the last parliament. But to better scrutinize the government, we need more workers party MPs, not fewer. We can't afford. There's not enough of us. We can only do so much. We need more workers party MPs in parliament to scrutinize the government. The workers party and I are privileged to have served algang residents since 1991 and I hope that our residents will continue to give the workers party strong support for us to continue working for you and speaking out for you for the next 5 years. So on May the 3rd, vote for the Workers Party Working for Singapore. Now I'm starting to enjoy my job by issuing all the yellow card and red card. The next speaker I just use four words to describe her. How may I invite the candidate for a journey GRC, Miss Sylvia Lim? Good evening dear residents of Sang Kang Bongo Jalan Caillou East Coast Tan Chunka and last but not least Hang and Al Jun, thank you for coming to our final rally of this campaign. Before I make my speech, I would like to say a big thank you to a group of people that have ensured that these elections and rallies proceed in an orderly manner. Our men and women in blue. They probably haven't had much sleep and been on their feet for long hours. Thank you very much. You know, in the 1990s, I was a woman in blue, and today, 30 years later, I'm still a woman in blue. Please let me address our aljunit voters in Chinese before continuing in English. for woman. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! womanho. Neonch. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Show Dear voters of Aljunet GRC, I began this journey with you more than 20 years ago, visiting your homes to get to know you better. When my team first contested in Aljunit 19 years ago in 2006, we did not win. But you gave us nearly 44% of the votes, enough for me to get into parliament as a non-constituency MP. In parliament, I worked hard with Mr. to represent your concerns. Then 5 years later in 2011, you took a leap of faith with the Workers Party and sent a whole GRC of five more MPs into parliament. In this campaign, the PAP leaders have been telling voters that if they lose a few ministers, Singapore will be weakened. But our Junit voters have heard all this before. Back in 2011, Mr. Lee Guan Yu compared the PAP aljunit team with the workers party team. On the BP side, there was George Yo, Lim Hui Hua, Sel Abidin, Oni Kang, and Cynthia Pua. And on the workers party team, we had Mr. Laoyakiang, myself, Chen, Shom, Ma, Baisal, Manab, and Pritam Singh. Mr. Lee talked up the PAP team as too important to lose two ministers, a future speaker of parliament, a future minister and the best grassroots leader. Whereas he said the workers party team only had one MP, one NCMP, a celebrity and two unknowns. He even warned Aljunit voters that if they voted in the WP team, they would have the next 5 years to repent. But since the PAP lost our unit, has Singapore been weakened? Life goes on. And guess what? One of the workers parties unknowns is now the leader of the opposition. There is a serious message here. You may only have one vote, but together our votes can chart the future. Over the years, we have done our best not to let you down. We have worked hard in parliament. In the last 5 years, Workers Party MPs in Aljunit, Hogang, and Sing Kang together filed more than 2,700 parliamentary questions. We filed motions and adjournment motions on many topics including reducing the cost of living, housing needs and prices, health care, fairer treatment of scam victims, women empowerment, sporting success and more. On the estate side, the Aljunet Hang Town Council has been doing well. We have made improvements to facilities, added covered lingways and dropoff points, and refreshed the estate. We have sent to our HDB residents our five-year plans. We will continue to improve on a personal level. We in the Aljunit team have gotten to know our residents over the past 14 years. Just as we care for you, you have also shown your care for us. Recently, when you heard about my marriage, you made greeting cards and mmentotos to wish my husband and I well. And on a lighter note, some of you even offered me the traditional Chinese blessing, which means, "May you have a baby soon, as the Koreans would say, the Workers Party asks you to vote with hope not fear and in line with hope we are bringing in new blood into the aljunate team. First, we have Fley Fousy, a 45year-old lawyer and father of toddler. And we also have Kenneth Kyouong, a 36 year old father of two with an intense interest in technology and AI. We must renew for the future of the Workers Party and for Singapore. Of course, I shall miss my dear Adek Faizal Manab. But this election, he has an important mission to lead in the neighboring Tan GRC. So tonight, let's make a promise not just to each other but to Singapore that come Saturday, we will vote not out of fear but with conviction and hope for the future that we deserve. that years from now, we can proudly say that we stood up and work for Singapore as we pass the baton to the next generation. My friends, may we wake up on Sunday morning to clear blue skies. Vults for the Workers Party working for Singapore. Hey, my hand. Now the next speaker don't need much introduction from me. He's the man himself Mr. Pam Singh. Thank you. Thank you. There's no better feeling than being here in Hogang. Good evening, my fellow Singaporeans. Tonight I will address a few points raised by the PAP during this election campaign. First, the PAP makes the argument that a vote for the opposition weakens the PAP government when it negotiates internationally. Second, the PAP says more opposition MPs will make life difficult for Lawrence Wong and the PAP government in managing Singapore. Number three, the PAP says that in a time of crisis, if you don't elect ministers like Mr. Gan Kimyong and all the current and potential ministers, we are in big trouble. Number four, Lawrence Wong says the opposition is here to stay. Number five, he tells voters not to give the opposition a free pass. Now, let me do a reality check. on each of these points. These reality checks may give you a good reason to vote for the Workers Party come 3rd of May. Let me address the first point. Lawrence Wong asks for a strong mandate. He says a weakened mandate would make it harder for the PAP to represent Singaporeans interests internationally. His foreign counterparts will size up the PAP ministers when they negotiate and only if the PAP has a clear mandate can they represent Singapore confidently. By strong mandate, the PAP meets at least 90% of the fully elected seats. but preferably 100%. So here is reality check number one. Even if every workers party candidate enters parliament and that is a very big if the PAP will still have 71 out of 97 seats and that is 73%. Does the PAP really believe that foreign leaders of democratic countries who meet Prime Minister Lawrence Wong will think, "Oh, the Singapore Prime Minister only won 73% of the seats. So lousy, he must come from a lousy school." Do you think do you actually think the foreign leaders will say this? Only the PAP say such things and think like this. Let me tell you foreign leaders of democracies would give their right arm and right leg for 73% of the seats in parliament. They would say 73% is a fantastic result. But they would also say that politics in Singapore is stable. And more than being an advanced economy, Singapore is finally beginning to look like the participatory democracy promised decades ago by then Prime Minister, Mr. Gang Tong. My second point is on PM Lawrence Wong saying that voting in more opposition weakens the PAP in governing Singapore. So reality check number two. Once the PAP forms government, it can pursue its full agenda. Winning a majority of the seats would allow the PAP to pass all the bills that it wants and just 65 seats will give the PAP a twoth3 majority. With that, the PAP will be a will be able to amend almost any part of the constitution even if the opposition disagrees. They have been doing that all these years. For example, in creating the reserve presidency, And the reality is this, the PAP will win 65 or more seats easily. How do I know this? I don't have a crystal ball, but my first degree from N US was in history. So, let's look at history. The GRC system started in 1988. It took 18 years for the PAP to lose one GRC in 2011. It took another two elections to lose one more in 2020. It is extremely difficult for any opposition party to win a GRC or an SMC. That's the fact. And even if the workers party wins a few more seats, the PAP government will not be weakened. Let's look at history again. Before 1980, there were fewer than 70 PAP MPs in parliament. Yet the PAP had more than enough people from which to find outstanding 1G ministers. Mr. Lee Kuwanu had far fewer people to choose from than PM Lawrence Wong has. If the PAP wins 71 out of 97 seats, is PM Wong saying that he cannot find enough good people to fill his cabinet? Is he telling us that the caliber of his PAP MPs is very low? And let me add one more important reason why having more WPMPs will not weaken the government. We do not oppose for the sake of opposing. If the laws are in Singapore's interest, we will vote with the government as we have done so. Everyone here knows the Workers Party MPs are rational and responsible. So I call on the voters to elect all the WP candidates. Even if all our candidates are elected, the PAP will still have more than twoth3 of the seats. Vote for us and we will work for you in your estate and in parliament. Now During this campaign, I believe two former army generals, one in East Coast GRC and one in Tempuded to the point that the opposition just talks and talks and talks. I was quite surprised when I heard this. And why do I say so? Now, around this time last year, before Min Mr. Leen Lung handed over power to Mr. Lawrence Wong, he gave an extended interview to the mainstream media, various mainstream media outlets. In his exchange with Linhur Tao Pao, there was a segment that contrasted talk and action. Tao Pao asked Mr. Lisen Lung, why do you say that communication skills are so important? In the past or all along the PAP would say less and do more, but now you mentioned the content of speeches, how to express it well. Why are they important? Mr. Lien Lung replied, "We used to say less and do more, but the former prime minister Lie Kuan kn his speeches were very effective. Through his speeches, he mobilized the entire country and led it on many paths. So it is not possible to say that speeches are unimportant." My fellow Singaporeans, it is in the nature of a parliamentary democracy that all of us do not just have to attend parliament faithfully. We have to speak up for Singaporeans. The opposition makes its contribution by checking the government of the day. The same thing Mr. Lee Kuanu did when he was in opposition after 1955. In fact, Mr. Lie Kuwanu would even walk out of parliament along with his MPs to make a political point. As an opposition MP, he could not be a man of action in terms of executing policies at that point because his main job was to be the loyal opposition. But in parliament, Mr. Lewanu talked and talked and talked. So I would ask the PAP candidates have a care for our political system. It is designed to represent all Singaporeans and the Workers Party has to step up for them. And two days ago, Mr. Chan Chun Singh said that this election campaign should be about focusing on the core issues. Unlike the PAP, the Workers Party has put out a manifesto with concrete proposals, actionable items for Singaporeans to understand our general election agenda, not mere motherhood statements, but for the whole campaign on housing, for example. No PAP candidate wanted to talk substantively during the rallies about lease decay. No PAP candidates wanted to engage the issue of how land for public housing is valued with a view to explore the prospects of housing affordability. No PAP candidate wanted to substantively engage the issue of why GST had to be hiked during a global inflation storm and why it could not be delayed. Some of these were directly brought up during our rally speeches. Our manifesto and our solutions for Singapore was shared with the public well before nomination day. So why didn't the PAP engage on these core issues? Beyond advocating for a fairer and more just and thoughtful policy in parliament, we have encapsulated our vision in our manifesto with concrete ideas that envision the type of Singapore we want for our people. So far from weakening Singapore, the Workers Party will bring the voices of Singaporeans into government through parliament. Now my third point, Lawrence Wong says that in times of severe crisis, if you don't elect ministers like Gang Kim Yong and all his current and potential ministers, we are in big trouble. He says we risk our lives and future if we vote for the Workers Party. Reality check number three. It was Prime Minister Wong himself who moved Gimyong out of Chuachuk Kang when he had been there for 14 years. DBM gun is new to the ground in Pongul. Prime Minister Wong said that the move was for leadership distribution. This does not make sense because Singapore is so small. We are not America, China or even Malaysia. In 2020, Angi Ming was moved from Paraseris Pongul to Sang Kang GC and he lost. To move a minister who you claim to be really really important at election time is a risk and it can be deemed reckless when you have other relatively safer constituencies to put him in and he knows exactly what I mean. So if DPM gun is indispensable then if I may use PM Wong's own phrase moving him was cavalier and irresponsible. Senior Minister Leen Lung says or he said at the rally that voters should not play dangerous games and vote tactically. But it looks like it looks like Prime Minister Wong is the one playing dangerous tactical games. From all of this, I can only draw two reasonable conclusions. First, moving DPM gun to Pongol was a tactical move to stop the workers party from winning the GRC. I think this is obvious to everyone. Second, I believe that Lawrence Wong would not have risked Gimyong against the workers party if he is indispensable. PM Wong must have been confident that he has enough talent even without DPM gun. There is no other reasonable conclusion. Now if he is not confident that he has enough ministers, would he have allowed four ministers to retire? Would PM Wong have led Kiochi Henry Ang Maliki Osman to step down if he was short of talent? Three of these ministers are not just heavyweights. They're super heavyweights. If PM Wong truly believed there was a risk to Singapore's future, he would have asked one or more of them to stay on just like PM Leen Lung or then PM Leen Lung remained as prime minister during co but PM Wong let them go. These four ministers who retired are years younger than senior minister Lisen Lung who remains in cabinet. Without a single vote being cast, it was not the voters or the opposition parties, but Prime Minister Wong who removed four ministers. But now he says to the voters, don't vote out serving ministers. Voters and the media should ask him, is DPM gun truly indispensable? If so, why did you risk him and risk our future? Why didn't you keep him in Chukan? Now, in my opinion, the real reason must be this. PM Wong knows that moving the PM gun was not risking Singapore's future. DPM gun is not indispensable and that is the simple truth. No one is indispensable. If DPM gun is not reelected, Singaporeans need not feel guilty. After all, you didn't put him at risk. The PAP did. And even if Gimyong is not elected, he can still serve Singapore. For example, just like previous ministers, he could be appointed chairman of a government link company. And if Mr. Gun has a good relationship with the US trade negotiator, there is no reason why he cannot continue to be Singapore's official negotiator or special envoy. To Americans and most countries in the world, winning and losing elections is normal. They are used to people losing elections and then representing the United States. Just look at Senator John Kerry or then President Jimmy Carter. Regardless of what the PAP would have you believe, the Americans will not care if Mr. gun lost the election and is no longer DPM. The Americans and many other countries follow professional practice and they deal with the person who is officially appointed by the government. They will happily continue to deal with XDPM gun voters. Voters of Pongol GRC, as our candidate in Pongol GC, Alexis Dangpian said in her rally speech, don't fall for the same trick that was played on East Coast GRC in GE 2020. and to the voters in temper and east coast just like DPM gun can serve elsewhere the same goes for minister Masagos and Edwin Tong Mr. Masagos has worked in senior positions in Singtel he could easily become chairman of a GLC or an ambassador like ex Minister Luaku Mr. Edwin Tong is a senior council. He could lead the Singapore Institute of Legal Education or he can join the Football Association of Singapore to fulfill his dream of bringing Singapore to the FIFA World Cup in 2034. My fourth point. My fourth point concerns Lawrence Wong saying that the opposition is here to stay. He is trying to assure voters that the opposition will be elected. This is reality check number four. The PAP wants to win all the parliamentary seats. Yoi Hyan personally walked the ground with the PAP aljunit team and he said and I quote, "We don't give up any constituency." Make no mistake, the PAP never gives up. Voters of Aljunate, Hogang, Sink and all the other constituencies where the workers party is contesting, we do not take your vote for granted. We must fight for every single vote. Every single vote is precious for the workers party. To the voters in temp chunk, east coast, pongol, jalan caillou, please do not assume that aljunit hogang and sink kang are in any way safe for the workers party. There are never any safe seats for the opposition. Even Aljunit was nearly lost in 2015. The margin was a razor thin 2%. Every single vote counts. So make your vote count. The PAP is dominant and it always campaigns hard. Vote for the Workers Party to create a more balanced political system. My fifth and final point is on Lawrence Wong's comment of don't give a free pass to the opposition. He said voters should apply the same standards to the PAP and opposition candidates. So reality check number five, the PAP created the GRC system. Since 1988, GRC's have protected dozens of new PAP MPs. For this election, a few PAP candidates never worked the ground until recently. Voters do not know them, but voters are expected to vote for them just because they are in a GRC with an anchor minister. That is what I call a free pass. By saying what he did, PM Lawrence Wong was treating us voters like simpletons. But the last few elections have proven to the workers party that Singaporean voters are savvy, thoughtful, and patriotic. Look at the percentages in previous elections. Singapore voters proved to be highly discerning and sophisticated. For example, better and more popular PAP candidates like Mr. Tarban, our president, got the highest percentages. When it came to the opposition parties, the range of different percentages depending on which opposition party you compare can be very significant. Voters of Singapore, the Workers Party trusts your judgment. If you compare the current Workers Party candidates to the PAP candidates, I believe you will agree that our batch of candidates is one of the best the Workers Party has put up. And I will go one step further. The Workers Party candidates offer all the PAP candidates do and more. These people behind me have come forward to run for the opposition the Workers Party. This proves that they are brave. They have guts. They have resilience. PNB candidates have nothing to lose when they run. Maybe they lose a little privacy, but what other risk do they take? Upon entering politics, PAP candidates and MPs certainly enhance their careers. In comparison, the Workers Party candidates have little to gain and everything to lose. Actually, I should correct myself. It is not true that the Workers Party candidates have nothing to gain. They do. By standing as Workers Party candidates, they acquire the privilege of standing up for Singaporeans for a more balanced political system and being counted. My fellow Singaporeans, I trust that you are savvy, thoughtful, and patriotic voters. When you assess the collective potential of these Workers Party candidates before you today in building a more balanced parliament, the choice is crystal clear. And most importantly before you cast your vote in Aljunid in Hogang in Sing Kang in Jalan Caillou Chunkat East Coast and Pongul remember this phrase. The Workers Party are a force for good. So on the 3rd of May, vote for the Workers Party Working for Singapore. Thank you. Now it gives me great pleasure and great honor to introduce someone up on the stage to join you. He was the former member of parliament for Hogang, former member of parliament for Aljunit, former secretary general of the workers party, Mr. Laang Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the close of a very very long election campaign. in that didn't just start 9 days ago. It started 5 years ago. And in the tradition of the Workers Party, we always end the last rally with the pledge. So without further ado, let me invite the candidate for Temp GRC, Mr. Michael Tung, to lead us in the pledge. We the citizens of Singapore of all pledge ourselves pledge ourselves as one united people as one united people regardless of race regardless of race language language or religion or religion to build a democratic Society society based on justice based on justice and equality and equality so as to achieve so as to achieve happiness happiness prosperity prosperity and progress for our nation and progress for our nation. Thank you. Thank you everyone. Please make your way home safely. Thank you for all your support this entire election and remember on May the 3rd to vote the Workers Party. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dear Singaporeans, thanks for your support. We have come to the end of the rally. Please make your way out of the stadium safely. Look out for anyone. Please do not push each other. Pick up the leader on the way out as well. We wish you a good evening. Thank you very much, Singapore. Thank you. Hello. Hello. Welcome. 211 doesn't matter. Come on. Come on. Come on.