Oh no. What the monkey? Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Let's go. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. The next one I think Heat. Heat. money. Up money. Yeah. Heat. Heat. Heat. Everybody Oh my gosh. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. something. I didn't need Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Everybody ready? Heat. Heat. Watch out. music. By next Thank you. Heat. Heat. What? Yeah. All right. Fire, fire, fire, fire high fire high fire high fire high fire high fire high fire high fire high fire high fire high fire. this money. This money Heat. Heat. One more. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Hey, Heat. Happy day. Happy day. assist. Chaboo. Chaboo. Thank you everyone. Um before I start, can I just uh remind everyone where uh to go to for the toilets? uh we are not allowed to use the toilets in this compound. So uh the nearest toilets will be at SPC petrol station outside as well as Temp East uh MRT station. So uh sorry guys if anyone of you have to use a toilet you have to go outside. Okay. Um, residents of Temp GRC, Tempat SMC, friends and supporters from all over Singapore. Good evening and welcome to the second workers party rally for general election 2025. Thank you everyone. I'm Alexis, your MC for tonight. Firstly, uh can I just say that I'm really glad that no one has to brave the element to come see us tonight. And uh secondly, I feel especially excited to be back here because I've spent almost 25 years in Temp myself and only moved out two years ago. In fact, uh my first home uh when I came back to Singapore was right here behind us at Temp Street 45. So I think I can proudly identify myself as a Tempanian. So where are all my Tonyian tonight? Raise your hands. Anyone from Tanese Chunka, raise your hand as well. Thank you. I love our T residents compound spirit. I mean, after all, what's there not to love about Ton when we have three malls all to ourselves and we don't ever need to go into town for anything? So, before we begin the speeches tonight, um, can we also have our residents from other GRC identify yourself? Firstly, where are all the Aljunit residents? East Coast residents, where are you? Sang residents, Jalan Caillou residents. And uh my GRC Pongo residents. Wow. Okay. It feels like everyone is everywhere all at once. Okay. But uh don't worry without further delay let me introduce our first speaker of the night which is none other than my very same team uh my campaign mate city Aliyah binti Abdul Rahim Mata let's welcome her on stage right now from Congo GRC Hi, good evening everyone. My name is Alia Matar and we're running together with my teammates for Pongal GRC. The same way that our parents worked hard to secure a future for us, it is now our turn to secure a future for the next generation of Singaporeans and the generations to come. One topic that was repeatedly brought up during the house visits that I joined as well as in just daily conversations that I have with other parents are the concerns that we as parents have for our children. The everinccreasing cost of living makes parents think twice about having more children. After all, children will need to be fed and clothed. They will incur medical and transportation costs as well as daycare costs, enrichment costs, and so on. It is no wonder that in 2024, Singapore's total fertility rate was an historic low of 0.97. I have met quite a few young couples who are holding back from starting families as they wait for their BTOs to be completed while also weighing the cost of each child that they plan to have. The increase in GST, let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, is just one more hurdle that young parents will have to face in deciding whether or not to have more children, if at all. We should consider the exemption of more essential goods from GST, including basic food items. This would ease the effects of inflation for low-income groups and offer relief to middle inome groups who may receive less support from GST vouchers. In terms of housing, we must change the way in which we view HDB flats. They should not be just wealth accumulation vehicles. They should be affordable homes for Singaporeans to live in. HDB prices cannot continue to increase indefinitely. This is not viable for us, for Singapore and for Singaporeans. One suggested solution to this is to price BTO's based on the median income level of new homeowners rather than the national household median income. This would make BTO's more affordable. We should also consider a 70-year lease for BTO flats instead of the standard 99year leasehole option which would necessarily reduce the cost of BTO's for all other HDB flats. We should introduce an universal buyback scheme by the government for aging HDB flats. With the Workers Party, we can expect a more balanced government where different views and proposals are discussed and adopted, where unity in diversity is encouraged and celebrated for the betterment of Singapore as we work for Singapore. Young is generous Singapore for foreign. Foreigne BTO. Oh, HDB Singapore investment. HDB HDB Singapore. Singap the workers party working for Singapore. Thank you, Alia. So, next up we have uh we have our second speaker who is a candidate for the East Coast GRC. Um he is none other than Jesperwan Hungai Juan Haye. Let's welcome him on stage. How? Good evening, my fellow Singaporeans. My name is Jasper Kwan. I am a proud resident of AAN. I have been a volunteer at the Alang SMC since 2020. I would like to thank Mr. Dennis, Mr. Pangad, and of course, Mr. Laakyang for their mentorship over the past 5 years in Akang allowing me to spread my wings and do this for the East Coast GRC. Tonight I am honored to stand before you as the Workers Party candidate for East Coast G. Like many Singaporeans, family is the cornerstone of my life. My wife and three young children mean the world to me. They are my inspiration, my driving force, and the reason I stand here today. Allow me to share a personal story about my family, one that shaped my decision to step up and run for election under the Workers Party banner. My wife's parents were originally residents of Hong Kong before they migrated to Singapore more than 30 years ago. It was due to this that my wife and I had the chance to meet fall in love and build our family together in Singapore. However, the political situation in Hong Kong has changed dramatically in recent years leading to yet another exodus of residents after COVID 19. Many of them no longer see Hong Kong as home. Last year, my wife's immediate family gathered in Singapore for a farewell reunion. One family was migrating to UK while the others were returning to other countries where they are residing now. Now, it was heartwrenching, heartwrenching to watch the elderly hugging one another in the airport departure gate, tears streaming down their eyes, crying as they beat farewell in their long goodbyes. They at this moment they will be separated by thousands of kilometers uncertain of when and whether they will meet again. For many of my wives friends and family from Hong Kong, Hong Kong is no longer the home they once loved. Unfortunately, I see similarities here in Singapore. A recent answers sg online poll of more than 7,000 in 2024 showed that 61% of Singaporeans are considering leaving abroad, citing challenges like cost of living and pace of life. Ladies and gentlemen, 61%. This was a turning point for me. It made me take a stand. It is easy for the government to view citizens like you and me as mere numbers, a small part of a system driving economic progress. But for individuals like you and me, beyond the act of leaving our country, it shakes the very foundation of who we are. I cannot stay silent while we risk losing the Singapore we love. A country built on the hard work and shared dreams of our forefathers. You know, the Workers Party want a Singapore that cares about people, not just mere numbers, but a place where everyone feels important and at home. This is the future I want for all of us. A country where we belong, where our blood, sweat, and tears matter, where we are prioritized, and where our children can grow up with hope. I cannot bear the thought of my three children leaving our homeland because they have no opportunities here. It will be so painful for me. My fellow Singaporeans, we stand at a pivotal moment, we still have a chance to change our path as a nation. In a few days time, you will face a choice at the polls. Do you want to continue down the same path year after year voting the PAP? Do do you want to do a flight to safety every time the PAP fear monger? Well, you just accept the GST vouchers the CDC hands out and the lab boooos and say it's okay. In keeping the same, you will risk an uncertain future for our children. So will you step up? Will you choose courage? Will you choose hope? Will you choose change? It is time. It is time for Singaporeans to shape our nation's future. It is time to seize this moment to move forward. It is time to build a future for our children by voting the Workers Party. I will end today's speech by humbly asking for your support to build a Singapore together. A Singapore where we can feel immensely in love with. A Singapore where we can see our children growing up happily in. A Singapore where you are an important part of the Workers Party. Vision for Singapore will ensure we take a step forward in that direction with your vote. A vote for the Workers Party is a vote not just for yourself but also a vote for your children and their children. Your vote for the Workers Party will make it happen. Together, we will work for Singapore. Together, we will succeed. Together, we will make history. Thank you so much. Wow. Thank you, Jasper. That was a really powerful speech. Next up, we have another candidate from the East Coast GRC. Let's welcome Paris B. Paramari on the stage now. Good evening, my fellow Singaporeans. How are you? My name is Paris V. Paramei and I'm one of the candidates for East Coast GRC. I am a patriotic Singaporean and I belong to the school of thought which believes that humility, honesty and integrity are paramount. Born in the Chinese year of the tiger, I always see myself as a person with a bold and boisterous personality. I served in the Republic of Singapore Navy as a military woman for six years and have worked with the United States Navy based in Singapore. I repeat, based in Singapore for 18 years as a security administrator. I did not fly from the United States as many people have assumed. I served those 18 years in Singapore, my motherland. I decided to step down from the US Navy to step up for the workers party. I joined the workers party as I wanted to be part of a dynamic team. I observed that parliamentary questions were asked fearlessly on behalf of Singaporeans by the workers party. I was content that workers party was the right party to join and to start my aspiration of advocating change for a better Singapore. Okay. I am a volunteer with the Singapore Police Force, Singapore Prison Service, and the Institute of Mental Health. I would like to advocate a change for exoffenders. We can consider better job opportunities for exoffenders to support their reintegration back into society without a stigma. Does it matter? Of course it matters. Ex- offenders whom I have supervised or spoken to have brought up that they are offered lower paying jobs such as cleaners, drivers, movers, logistic assistants or chiefs, and that their criminal records prevent them from getting better jobs despite their educational qualifications or work experiences. Hoping for exoffenders to reintegrate with society is one thing, but with society stereotype hanging over them, is it easy for them to reintegrate, especially when they are not offered better job opportunities? Some organizations simply do not employ people with a criminal record. Organizations can be supportive and consider employing the ex-offenders. This would also be in line with the yellow ribbon Singapore's initiative to let ex-offenders have a second chance in life by empowering them in their employment journey. Next, I would like to talk about another pressing issue in Singapore, mental health. My degree in psychology has made me understand mental health issues and the difficulties in dealing with them. Mental health issues are real. They can be life-threatening at times. However, society still sees mental health issue issues as a taboo. There must be a broader awareness through education on mental health. To bring about a change in our collective mindsets, we need to be able to assure people with mental health issues that it is okay not to be okay. As stated in our GE 2025 manifesto, the government should make regulating mental health professionals a priority. And since those seeking help are by definition already at risk, they should be treated by qualified professionals and not unqualified or unethical individuals claiming to be able to help them. Let me continue in tel now for my Tamil supporters. Okay. Singapore east coast. for Singapore. Step up. Singapore Singapore. Singapore. Reintegrate. Cleaners, drivers, movers, logistics assistants, criminal record. for reintegrate. Criminal record yellow. Finally, I'm back to English now. Finally, my fellow Singaporeans, are you guys ready for a change? Yeah. If you want the change, be the change. Make the change. Step up. Vote for the workers party working for Singapore. Thank you. Thank you, Paris. I'm always so impressed when she speaks uh Tamil, even though I don't understand anything, but it sounds very proficient. Thank you. So, next up with uh we have another candidate from the Aljunit GRC. His name is But Ba. Let's welcome him on stage. Salam shatraundi Singapura Fousy Aljun GRC East Coast Gosc forchech. personality politics harapan Singapore. for Singapur. message. Singapura, good evening voters of Singapore. My name is Pali Fousy. In 2020, I had the privilege of running in Marine Prec with the Workers Party. I ran because I believe in a check and balance in Parliament. I ran because I believe that no single party has a monopoly of knowledge in Singapore. And I ran because I believe that choosing for more competition in politics is the best way to make your vote count. That was 5 years ago and I still believe in those things. But today I have an additional reason for running with the workers party. Two years ago I was blessed with a daughter. It gives me a new mission and I believe and I believe one that all parents would share. Making sure my daughter has a better life than me. And that is why I am proud to stand here once again as a candidate with the Workers Party because I believe our party's positions are the right policies, the policies that will work for you. the policies that will work for your family and the policies that will work for Singapore. I will share two policies that are important to me as a young father with a new family. First, the Workers Party has called for the extension of child care leave. Now parents have six days per year for child care leave but only for children up to the age of seven. Also 6 days in one year no matter how many children you have. So you if you have three children age four, seven and eight and they always fall sick one after another you still cannot claim more than six days. And worse they expect the 8year-old to take care of himself if he falls sick. I ask you, does this make sense? As many families will know, this is not enough. When your 8 or 9 year old child gets sick and can't go to school, someone will still have to take care of them. Or if you have multiple kids, the current cap of 6 day per year for all of them is far too low since they often will get sick one after another. That's why we believe that childcare leave should be on a per child basis and last until the children are 12. Parents should never be forced to choose between losing their job and caring for their sick children. Second, the Workers Party has called for serious reform of our education system. Today, our kids often top international pizza academic rankings. They are number one in mathematics, number one in sciences and number one in reading. But at what cost to our children? A N US study in 2023 found that one in three teenagers surveyed reported mental health symptoms like depression, anxiety, and loneliness. My fellow Singaporeans, my fellow parents, is this what you want for your children. We have proposed smaller class sizes so every child gets more attention from teachers who can watch out for at risk behavior. Yes, we have proposed a 10 year 10 year through train program so that we can spare our children from the great anxiety and stress of having to sit for PSLE at the end tender age of 12. This is the way we should take care of our children. The Workers Party has called for these ideas, but do you think the government will listen to us without your support? So if you believe that raising a child should be affordable, vote for the Workers Party. party. If you believe that parents should be able to take care of the sick children, vote for the workers party. Workers party. If you believe that the kids should have an education system that supports them better, vote for the workers party. Workers party workers party workers party. So vote for the workers party to make sure we can keep working for you. Vote for the Workers Party to make sure we can work keep working for families. And vote for the Workers Party to make sure we can keep working for Singapore. Thank you Fley and thank you for sharing all the changes that we would like to see in the existing system. Next up with uh we have a candidate from the Temp GRC that's right here. His name is The shaming man shaming man. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! She's here. The wallche. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore! Foreign! Foreign! cousin. Pol foreign toech. The way the way for Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Go foreign free rider. We are not free rider. Ni, what you think? Oh, thank forming the Fore! Foreign! Foreign! for Mayo. Truly out here. Okay. Uh, next up we have another candidate from the East Coast GRC. Let's welcome Sufia Mikuel Pra Muhammad Camille on the stage right now. Thank you my friends and fellow Singaporeans. Good evening. Malay tata. My friends, thank you for joining us this evening. My name is Sufyan and I am one of the candidates for team East Coast GRC. It is indeed a homecoming moment for me to give my first ever rally speech with you here on this very ground where I attended Junior College. I grew up in the east and for me all of us east gathered here today truly feels like family. Upon leaving college, I applied for a student loan and since my return from law school, I have been a practicing lawyer for the last few years. Recently, however, I resigned as an associate director of a community-based law firm due to its nonpartisan policy in order to contest these elections. While it was indeed a tough personal decision, the call to step up and serve our beloved nation and fellow Singaporeans was too strong to ignore. Therefore, with the blessings of my family, friends, and our party, I am humbled and proud to be standing under the watchful gaze of the hammer symbol as a candidate of the workers party. My fellow Singaporeans, some of you may ask, why vote for the Workers Party? For those of you out there who are facing this dilemma, let me say this. What we are fighting for is to build a balanced political system with political competition keeping both sides working harder for you and with multiple viewpoints debated in parliament. This is the way to strive for better policy outcomes for you, your families, and for Singapore. As we have highlighted in our manifesto, our presence in parliament has undoubtedly made an impact in our public policy. And all this with just 10 elected MPs. Imagine what more can be done if me and my fellow candidates are given the chance to be your voice in parliament. My friends, please allow me to say a few words in Malay. Parliament. foreign. Saudi reality. Democratic conspiracy. My friends, we in the workers party are standing here for one main purpose to be your voice in parliament. We believe in a balanced political system in which no one party have a monopoly over talent and ideas and we believe that different ideas should be debated extensively and this need is ever more important today. The cost of living precious today is the crisis of a generation. And especially so for many of my age who are just about to start building our lives. And for those of my parents generation who worry about their savings and whether they can even afford to retire. And these cost of living pressures were no doubt intensified with a 2% increase in our GST within just one term of parliament. As the leader of the opposition put it best, he's not here yet, but the GST hikes have undoubtedly turbocharged inflation. I could not have said it better myself. My friends, if we do not have elected Workers Party MPs with a stronger voice in parliament in this election, will the government truly hear us? My fellow citizens, the PAP has had a super majority in parliament for the last 60 years. Ask yourselves, how many backbs do we really need to have a strong and functioning government? Can they speak any more differently than the other bencher PAP MPs? Can they or do they vote on legislation any different than the other PAP MPs? My friends, the Workers Party has been and will continue to be a force for good and commit to continue working constructively with the government to ensure that their policies will always have your best interest at heart. So please do not worry for we will be a constructive party and we are ready, willing and able to work for the with the government for the good of all Singaporeans. I ask that you consider our democratic endeavor to establish a loyal opposition in parliament that works for the betterment of our people. Let us build a society based on justice and equality so as to achieve happiness, prosperity and progress for our nation. Let this not let this not just remain an aspiration, but that it becomes our reality. So my fellow Singaporeans, it is indeed time to step up and make your vote count. And we pledge to fulfill our end of the bargain and keep on working for Singapore. Vote for the Workers Party. Thank you. Romery say, "Thank you, Sufyan. You have my utmost respect for quitting your job and stepping up for Singaporean." Oh my god. Next up, we have we have a candidate from the Temp GRC. His name is Michael Tong Huang. Good evening, Tony. My name is Michael Tung and I proudly stand before you as a candidate for Tanese GRC under the Workers Party. I know that this is the first T rally for the Workers Party, but how many of you is this your first rally that you've ever attended for the Workers Party? How many of you are have been here for a long time? I ask because standing amongst you today in this electric atmosphere, I think about the first time I attended my workers party rally in 2006, some 20 years ago. I was a JC student, not TJC. I changed out of my school uniforms to come to Sarangun Stadium. took a long journey from the west to Sarangun Stadium and I remember that at that time in 2006 I had the impression that Singapore was a-ok okay that you know other than a few troublemakers that we read about sometimes in the papers Singaporeans were generally happy with how things were but that night arriving at Sarangun Stadium being amongst the many of you who loudly proclaimed your desire for a different Singapore, for a stronger Singapore, for a more inclusive Singapore. My mind was changed. My mind was awoken and I wanted to learn more about what was going on in my country. How many of you guys were there in 2006? Some But if not for you, if you did not show up that day and if you did not embrace me the way you did in 2006, I will not be here today. And so in many ways, I have all of you to thank for my journey to this stage. So thank you. And to the many students who changed out their school uniforms and came to this stadium today. I hope to see many of you on stage here in a couple of years. Now over the past 15 years I've seen how the Workers Party has made a difference. Not through catchy slogans or fancy showmanship, but through real work on real issues. The party has never accepted the false choices that were put forward by the PAP. The PAP once said that we could not support single mothers or it would undermine the family unit. We said we can do better, right? They once said that we that low low wage workers must stand on their own two feet otherwise they would develop a handout mindset. We said we can do better right? They once said that political diversity would threaten political stability. But I know and you know that we can build a system that is diverse without breaking it. For a small party, we dared to dream big. We rejected these false choices, these false dichotoies. We dragged issues that used to sit on the margins and brought them into the political mainstream. That is why today we don't ask if retrenched workers need support. We ask what kind of support they should get. That's why we don't ask today if minimum wage protections are needed for our workers. We ask how broad they should be. And that's why we don't ask today why single parents, single parent families are treated so differently. We simply have to ask for why they can't be treated fully. And you know, even the PAP is beginning to acknowledge this because just last week they admitted that the government does not have a monopoly on good ideas that no one does. But then if so, why should they have a monopoly in parliament? And that's why I stepped forward. It's because I believe in this work and I want to keep building on it. I want a political system where issues can be raised early, openly, and constructively. One that has compassion and where Singaporeans see themselves reflected in it. Not one where data is withheld from us. or where we are gas lit all the time by what we are seeing. We don't want to be told that the sky is white when we see it is blue. We don't want to be told that raising GST in the middle of record high inflation is good policy when we know it could have been postponed. We don't want to be told that CDC vouchers will make it all okay when we know it is just a band-aid for a gaping wound. We don't want to be told that hawker rental rates do not affect the food prices when we know that doesn't make any sense. We don't want to be told that after half a billion dollars was spent, the best that Singapore can produce when it comes to the ERP is a clunky three unit system. I think we're the only country in the world where technology gets bigger, not smaller. C. And we certainly don't want to be told that if we have more opposition in parliament, the PAP were to spend all their time fixing us rather than serving the Singapore people. In my mind, answering the opposition is serving the Singapore people. I want to take a moment to talk to the Temp residents who hopefully many of you are gathered here today. You know, I spent the last year talking to many of you and I'll tell you the most common thing I hear is why you take so long to come here. So T we are here. So come May the 3, you will all have a chance to make your voices heard. You will all have a chance to build a better Singapore, a more inclusive Singapore, one where your voices are given equal weight in the policym process. So I ask you, will you vote for the Workers Party? I ask you, will you tell your friends and family to vote for the Workers Party? Because we can only win if we do this together. If you get your friends together, your family together, people you kind of know who live in temp together and get everybody to vote for the workers party. Thank you so much for welcoming us. Vote the workers party. Thank you, Michael, for that electrifying speech. That was really good. Okay. But uh before we go on to the next speaker, can we have people at the back move forward so we can allow more uh people to come into the rally ground please? We are getting so popular that like more and more people are just streaming in. Thank you everyone for your cooperation. Thank you. Let's make more space for people at the back to come in. Thank you. Thank you everyone. So we have our next speaker who is none other than our workers party chairperson Sylvia Lim. Come on in. Good evening fellow Singaporeans and especially residents of Aljunet Hang Sang Kang Bongo Jalan Caillou East Coast Japanese and Japanese Chan Wow. Thank you. Thank you. You know, it's been about 10 years since my last rally speech. A lot has changed since then. The last time I stood on this stage, I still had black hair. Now I stand here as a proud holder of a passion silver card and I also somehow managed to get married. He's here somewhere. Thank you very much. So my friends, tonight my speech is about senior citizens. It is dedicated to all my fellow seniors here in this rally and to the thousands more watching online and on their phones. And it also matters to everyone who cares for our seniors in your families and in the community. The march of time is something none of us can avoid. We will all grow old someday. And the challenges facing seniors today will be faced by everyone sooner or later. And part of the privilege of being an MP for the last 14 years is growing older with our residents, sharing their joys and tribulations as we enter the next stage of our lives. So this is the workers party's commitment to all seniors, present and future. We will continue to stand alongside you to fight for your interest in parliament because Singapore will be nothing without you. Now let me outline three key policies for seniors that the workers party will fight for. First on the use of Med Safe, we call for seniors over 60 years old to be allowed to use their Medicafe to pay for all medical expenses not already covered by Medi Shield Life, Medif fund or other assistance schemes. Such usage should be only be permitted at government poly clinics, specialist outpatient clinics and char clinics in the public sector and char clinics for chronic diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. We call for the current spending limits of $500 or $700 per year to be removed. Frankly, I don't understand why this is not already the case. Instead, once your annual spending limits are reached, you will have to pay cash out of pocket or ask your children for help even though you have Medisave balances. Many retirees have no income. Since the money in your Medicave account is your money, why can't you use it to pay for your own essential treatments? Second, we will call for the statutory retirement age to be abolished. What this means is that you should be allowed to work so long as you're able and willing to work. Of course, we are not saying that you must work till you die. What we are saying is that there should be no artificial ceiling on when you should retire. So long as you wish to work and you are able to perform, you should decide when to stop. The current statutory retirement age is 63. There are many of us in our 60s. Is it really the case that we suddenly become less able to do our jobs once we reach our 63rd birthday? If you look at the government, are there not PAP ministers who are already past the statutory retirement age? My friends, Parliament passed the workplace fairness law in January this year. Soon, older employees will have this law to protect them against age discrimination. So, it's time to remove the statutory retirement age. Let older employees contribute and lead productive lives. Our third proposal is for caregivers. These are family members who provide loving care for our seniors at home. Some are doing so while juggling work commitments. I met one such lady at a coffee shop at Sangun North yesterday. She asked me why caring for elderly parents was not treated the same way as child care in terms of having paid leave. You know in the PAP manifesto there is one sentence about caregivers. It reads strengthen support for caregivers the unsung heroes in our families. There are no details stated about how this will be done. Unlike their one line, we have in our manifesto a concrete proposal to assist caregivers in the form of family care leave. We propose that caregivers should be able to take paid time off to bring their elderly parents for medical appointments and so on. The cost for this should be shared equally by both employers and the government. This will send a signal that society values our seniors being cared for at home by loved ones like that filial daughter I met at the coffee shop. Friends, these are just three of the many proposals in the workers party has put forward for our seniors. But if I were to summarize within a single sentence, the goal of the Workers Party is to enable our seniors to live their golden years with security, dignity, and purpose. We do not want a Singapore where seniors and their caregivers have to worry and make compromises every day just to survive. So, how can we Singaporeans bring about the changes we need? You can see how having competition makes the PAP pay more attention to you. One man recently shared his opinion with me in Chinese. You know, I've been in parliament for 19 years. It was just Mr. Laang and myself at first, but Singaporeans understood the need to send more WP MPs into parliament. That's right. That's right. Step by step from our unit in 2011. Then 9 years later in Sang Kang, you have seen your voice growing louder and louder. And you have also sewn the seeds for fellow Singaporeans to step up. Just look at the candidates we have on stage today. So I say this to you my fellow citizens. This election in 2025 remind the government that it was seniors who built this country. Send a strong signal that more needs to be done for seniors to live with security, dignity and purpose. So come 3rd of May, make your vote count at this election, let's create our own kind of silver tsunami. Vote for the Workers Party working for Singapore. Thank you, Sylvia. and thank you for your contribution as uh one of the longest serving MP from the Workers Party. Thank you for your contribution to Singapore's democracy. Our next speaker is the candidate from the East Coast GRC. He is Nataniel Co. Let's welcome you on stage. Fellow Singaporeans, hello voters of East Coast GRC, voters everywhere, whether you are watching online or here in person in this rally site or in the blocks out there. Thank you for joining us. As I look at each face in this valley, I see each of you as a unique person. Each of you touch your heart. Have your own story to tell, your own pleasures and pleasures of life. And you are here because you want a better future for yourself and your family. You are here because you believe in a future where your hopes and your dreams can be fulfilled. You are here because you know that Singapore's future, your future is too important to live in the hands of one single party that has been too dominant for too long. For many years, we have walked with you in your homes, in your void decks, in your coffee shops, in your hawker centers. You shared with us your stories, your struggles, your hopes. You spoke about the rising cost of living. You spoke about the challenges of finding affordable housing. You spoke about child care, health care, and getting meaningful jobs with a fair salary. Those are not just policy issues for politicians. Those are the realities you face every single day of your life. Public transport fairs has gone up. Food prices have gone up. Everything has gone. But your incomes But your incomes go up have not. And even if they have, chances are they have not kept up with your cost of living. Chances are they have not kept up with your stage of life. Whether it may be caring for your elderly parents, looking after your young children, or just having enough to live on and to save for your golden years. I get it. My wife and I have been married for 11 years. We have two young sons, 5 years and one year. Not enough. Not enough. We have elderly mothers in their mid70s. We live in the BTO. We take public transport every day. We want the best for ourselves, our family, our children, our country. You want the best for yourself, your family, your children, your country. Singapore. And to be your best, let's find ways to manage one of the key stresses of life, cost of living. A show of hands. A show of hands. How many of you are feeling hungry right now? I'm feeling hungry, too. My stomach is bumbling. And I'm sure our candidates here are hungry as well. They are hungry to serve you on the ground and in parliament. Talking about hunger, let's talk about everyone's every Singaporean's favorite topic. What is it? Yes, that's why food. What do you need to prepare food? Money. Money. What else? The ingredients. Ingredients. Rice. Noodles. eggs, cooking oil, salt, pepper, and many more. Those are some essential food items. Let's Let's exempt GST from them. We can do it. Singapore already Singapore already has a list of items that are exempt from GST like gold and silver. So if gold and silver can be exempted from GST, why not rice and cooking oil? We can do it. Another show of hands. How many of you eat at coffee shops? I'm sure everybody does. If you raise your hand, if you do, yeah, raise your hand in your heart also can. And anyone knows how many coffee shops there are? Give a guess. Give a number. All right. About 800. Half owned by HDB, half owned by private operators. Between 2019 and 2024, HDB kept WS stable for most of the coffee shops they own. And when WS stay stable, food prices tend to stay stable, too. It makes sense. So if stable rents help keep food prices stable, why not bring coffee shops back to HDB? We can do it. HDB used to own all the coffee shops until it started to sell them to private operators. But in 1998, HDB stopped selling coffee shops to private operators. They saw something there. And we think it's time for HDB to take back the coffee shops. We can do it. Those are just some just a couple of the policy proposals we have to help you manage the cost of living. And those proposals can be advanced even more with more workers party MPs in parliament. We don't need one party to have all the power. We need balance. We need accountability. We need representation. Let's shape a better future for all Singaporeans. We can do it. So come third of May, vote with hope. Vote with pride. Vote Workers Party Working for Singapore. Heat. Heat. safe. Thank you everyone and thank you Nathaniel for the very thoughtprovoking speech. Next up we have our very special SMC candidate Teran who will be contesting in the Tanese Chart SMC. Dear voters of Temp GRC and Temp Chanka GRC SMC, sorry, your wait is over. The workers party is here. We have a lot of supporters by the stands today. Can you make some noise for us? Thank you. I'm Fuan Kenneth, your workers party candidate for Temp Chunkrat SMC. Before I continue, please allow me to say a few words in our national language, Malay. I apologize as this may not be the smoothest Malay speech just like your recent MR incidents that happened as well. I had the same encounters because I also take train and bus. I don't own two cars. Salam sajatra temprat salamandanda waga nigara Singapura sayi cai chalan and sa babashati Baba basama and sa babashatan bi sanu mo kiri and sara Parliament. Thank you. In the past, Pan was one GRC. After the last electoral boundary review, you got split into two. feels like East and West Germany, North and South Korea. But don't worry, the Workers Party has a plan. It is called the Japanese plan. You voters vote in all the WP candidates in Ton including me and will form one town council. Make us one big family under one roof. Some of you may know I contested in East Coast GRC in 2020. Residents asked me, "Hey Kenneth, how come Tony Chunkrat?" I asked myself, "What do I bring to the table? For 20 years, I work in public service helping exoffenders reintegrate. Then in a charity supporting cancer patients. At the same time, I did grassroots work and served as a town counselor for 10 years. Last but not least, I'm a la man. I volunteered to serve beyond the 10year cycle. I'm in the armed process for 20 years. I gave 20 years of my life serving the underprivileged, serving Singaporeans, serving our country. And now, if you give me the chance, I want to dedicate the next 20 years of my life serving you. will will give me the chance to serve you from my whatabouts in the past few days. I heard many concerns. One resident said, "Hey, Kenneth Temp Shankrat, I got this sunrise smile breakfast $2 only." They worry if workers party wins, will this breakfast be gone? I ask you residents of Tanese Chunkraat, would you be bought over by just a $2 breakfast? Let's break it down. $2,000 first. Why do we need to have a special offer in the first place? This is because cost of living is escalating, inflation goes up, and Singaporeans like you and me are feeling the pinch. Second, who absorb the cost? It's the business owners. Their cost go up. You'll pass it back to us again. So don't be food. There's no free lunch. Third, even if CDC is paying for the difference, ask yourself again, would you just go PAP because of this $2 breakfast that they give you? Come on, PAP. With your multi-million cabinet, you can do better than this for Singaporeans. Did you know in fiscal year 2024 our overall budget surplus was $2.6 billion and this fiscal year 2025 our budget surplus is expected to be even higher at $2.7 billion. If the PAP really want to treat you, they need more than gopi kaya toast ice cream. ask them to bring out the seal myaong pa and I say also free flow of roti praa as well. So I say Singaporeans don't be taken for a ride. If something feels like a scam, call scam shield or better vote for the workers party to bluff the noses. I must finish the speech and not the later fun will s me. Some of you may also fear if WP wins will Tony Shanka be neglected. I give my promise that it won't be neglected. Will they become a slum like what PA used to say about Alang SMC? You're right. Let me tell you, I've lived in Alang for 30 years of my life. I know what PAP will throw at us, but Alang never give up. We fall back. Yes. Because we got a courage to believe and we have the ability to make things better for ourselves. When the PP say no sheltered linguay no problem our town council use our funds we build our own. When they say leave upgrading delayed, no problem. The resident say I will carry the bicycle up the stairs myself. No town council, no problem. Mr. La build it from zero. This is the Singaporean spirit. We don't live in fear. We live with hope and this is what we fight for and I promise if elected I will fight till my last breath for the welfare of Chanka residents. Now the question is, are you with us? If you are, let's start building the Temp Chrra spirit and I ask you to vote for me and my fellow workers party candidates into parliament on May the 3. And so and so on May the 4th, May the force be with us. party. Work for the Workers Party so we can keep working for you and for Singapore. The difficulty of a SMC candidate is that he have to speak two languages. So please bear with me. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Okay. I have a special privilege tonight. I can speak for 10 minutes. So I ignore this for now. Yeah. Relax. Relax. foreign speech. for I'm going to continue to ignore her for a while. Yeah. Yeah. Watching Okay. Okay. Oh, wait for shout out. Thank you, Kenneth, for your wonderful Tanese plan. I'm very sure if you get elected, your plan is going to be much better than the East Coast plan. Okay. Um the next speaker is a candidate from the Tanese GRC. He is Dr. My fellow Singaporeans and dear residents of Temple GRC, a very good evening to you. I am Dr. Anglo Luing. I am a father of three teenagers aged between 14 and 19. Enough or not? Like most parents, I wish my children can grow up to be safe, healthy, and happy. While I believe they have a good chance to grow up safe and healthy here, I am not confident that they can grow up happy in our current Singapore. As a veteran parent of three PSLE, I have experienced firsthand the stress and anxiety faced by our students and their parents. And like most of you, I worry about the rising cost of living in Singapore and is its impact on our families. My fellow parents, I want to ask you these questions. Do you constantly worry and ask yourself these questions every single day and night? Can we provide well for our family and our children? Can our children find jobs after their education? Can they even afford a HTB when they grow up? In my work as a psychologist at the Institute of Mental Health for the past 22 years, I have witnessed firsthand the negative impact of our pressure cooker system on the mental health and well-being of our Singaporeans, especially our young people. Every day, my colleagues and I fight tooth and nail to help our patients overcome their emotional struggles. But we often feel helpless when systematic and structural factors are the things that affect the mental health of our patients. Despite the challenges, I have stayed so long in public health care service and not go to private practice like some doctors that we know in Taiwanese because because I want to help all my fellow Singaporeans regardless of their status and income level. But in my heart of hearts, I know I should do more for the country I love and the Singapore I'm grateful for. From my professional expertise, I am keenly aware of the potential danger of group think when suboptimum decisions are made to conform to group norms and unity. As a Singaporean, one of my greatest concern is the development of group think in the highest decision making body of the land and its impact on ordinary Singaporeans. Therefore, I'm closely aligned to the Workers Party's conviction that there needs to be more loyal and patriotic Singaporeans who dare speak truth to power in parliament on behalf of you, my fellow Singaporeans. I know some of you may have heard this before, but I would like to share this again. Because this is the core reason why I gave up my senior leadership position in a public hospital to join the workers party. In my younger days, I used to subscribe to the government's philosophy that a rising tide leaves all boats. However, after years of public service, I begin to realize that this principle only works if all the boats are built the same and are sailing in calm waters. In reality, only the most privileged in society gets to sail in cruise ships. And what do us ordinary Singaporeans tell in Bambles and what do the most disadvantaged and vable in our society still in s in our current volatile uncertain complex and ambiguous vaua times a rising tide may still leave a cruise ship even in stormy and choppy waters, but will likely overturn some of the bambots and sink most of the samp. To make matters worse, in this stormy climate, we ordinary Singaporeans have to endure a lightning strike of 8%. and then another lightning strike of 9%. Therefore, I think there is an urgent need for us to advocate for more socially just and equitable policies to address the structural challenges of our samples. My fellow Singaporeans, the worker workers party recognizes that in any policies there are always tradeoffs. The question for me is not so much what are the tradeoff but more of who are the ones big tradeoffs. Therefore, I believe there is a need for more people to stand up to speak up for those who are left out and left behind in this policy tradeoffs. My friends, I have spent my entire career in the past 22 years helping my patients overcome their daily struggles. Now, I think it's time for me to step up and step forward with the Workers Party to also address the daily struggles of my fellow Singaporeans in parliament. Thank you. The PAP tells us they will never gamble with the future of Singapore and the well-being of Singaporeans. Let me tell them this. It is no longer about gamble anymore because you have already lost touch with ordinary Singaporeans. You have already lost the well-being of Singaporeans. You have already lost the future of Singapore's young people who no longer see a future in Singapore. So to the young and not so old, if you desire like us to hammer the nails of social injustice and inequality, Singapore, support us and the workers party and to our pioneer and meda generations. Sir and ma'am, we owe you a dep of gratitude for your service to the nation. But now we have to ask you to do a little bit more. If you desire for more people who dare to speak truth to power in parliament on behalf of you, support us and the workers party. And finally to my peers in our 40s whom I affectionately term ourselves as the Marikita generation. Guys, we have lived half of our life. It is time to decide what we want to do for the second half of our lives. Do we want our children and future generations of Singaporeans to be burdened by the siege mentality and the perpetual state of vulnerability that our generation has been burdened with? or do we want to stand up together to tell the PAP 4G leaders that Singapore's best is yet to be and together let's be the hope of a better age for Singapore, my friends and my fellow Singaporeans. I am Dr. Ang Lu Ping, a worried father, a dedicated public health care psychologist and a loyal Singaporean. This is who I am and building and inclusive, fair, happy and a better Singapore is what I stand for. Vote for the Workers Party. working for you, working for Singapore. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Another respectable candidate that has stepped down from his job to step up for Singaporeans. The next candidate that we have is also from the Tanese GRC. She is Friday. Uncle and auntie Like I say, foring. Thank you. Thank you. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! forch. Ali Fore speech. safe. They are This is Foreig speech. cleaning. Oh, Singapore. Singapore. Great. Thank you, Elen, for your amazing Hawkins speech. Next up, we have our final candidate for the Temp GRC. I'm sure you guys have all been waiting for him. is Muhammad Baal bin Abdul Man. Let's welcome him. Thank you everyone. Waving to my KB resident and volunteers. Good evening. Oh, welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Fellow Singaporeans, especially voters of Tin Da. My name is Mohamad Fisal, age 50. I'm married with a lovely wife, only one wife. I have three children. Okay, this is my fourth GE. I was as many of you have known it the unit GRC member of parliament for three terms 2011 2015 2020 and 2025 where this de I'm humbled to be given the trust by WP's leadership to lead a team contesting in this temp. I'm very heartened and very grateful to my teammates Dr. Luping, Miss Elen Chong, Mr. Jimmy Tan, the singer, and West Michael. Okay, you heard him speak just now, right? Spoke just now. Yeah. Okay. All of them I really appreciate what they've done. They have step out from their comfort zone and step up to be part of this wholesome and dynamic team. Here we are offering our humble self to serve Tempine residents and God willing be the elected representative of Tempine GRC come 4th May. Why I said fourth not third because the official result will be announced normally in the early morning of 4th May. last time GRC 3 in the morning but we know quite early but I don't know what they want to announce okay in fact not only residents of temp the same for residents of hamun sang east coast may the be with all of you Thank you. Uh we have limited time. Okay. Before I share one very important point on Singapore politics, I would like to say a few words to my former constituents of Khaki Buket W of Adjunate GRC. Hopefully I don't cry. Residents of Kaki Buket w of Aunet DRC with full of humility. My heartfelt thanks to you for turning me into a better person in my 14 years life journey with you all. Yes, I'm sad that my journey has come to an end at Kakib Buket, but I believe the wonderful residents of Kaki Buket will understand why I must make this move. And a big and sincerious thanks also to all my dedicated and committed KB volunteers. Where are they? And also staff of AHTC for wonderful the wonderful bond and kinships. Again with full of humility and sincerity, I seek your forgiveness for all my shortcomings during my 14 years of service in Kaki Buket. Now allow me to pledge my commitment and recite my oath to you residents of Tempine GRC. I am a minority candidate, a Malay Muslim. Regardless, I will serve the residents of Genesis GRC regardless of race, language or religion equally and to the best of my ability. Similar to how I serve my multi-racial and multi-religious communities in my former Kakubuket ward. This is my commitment and my oath witnessed by all of you and God. Fellow Singaporeans, I will now speak on the need for checks and balance which is the fundamental tenant of a democratic society. I believe many of you here will remember that many years ago our president Mr. Talman who was then finance minister was quoted as saying that he thinks a strong opposition is good for the PAP and for Singapore. He say good h good for Singapore and good for the PAP. Right. More recently in a podcast interview with the straight time in March this year, Minister Angi Kang he touched on the point that the elections are about producing an effective system of government. It was reported that he mentioned I quote of course in people's minds now they're thinking it's a good outcome that is a PAP government but with opposition as check and balance that's a good system of government I don't disagree unquote I would like to thank our president Mr. Tman and Mr. Oang for acknowledging the need for a strong opposition for the betterment of Singapore. Fellow Singaporeans, the next question is why the Workers Party, YWP? It is because we, the Workers Party, are a loyal opposition. Loyal to who? Yes. Loyal to Singapore and loyal to all of you Singaporeans. WP work hard as we want Singapore to remain as a shiny red dot. WP will work hard as we want Singapore to be warm home, a warm home and affordable place to live in for ourselves, our for our family and our generations to comes. WP will work hard so Singaporeans can have a balanced and a dignified life. The WP will work hard so Singaporeans could enjoy their life upon retirement. The WP will work hard to build a caring, inclusive, a democratic society so as to achieve happiness and progress for our nation. Fellow Singaporean, especially voters of Temp GRC, how does WP plan to do this? WP has produced a 122 pages manifesto featuring 125 policy proposals. Apart from these proposals, we have also reflected 15 policies which have been adopted in some form. I do hope you find the time to go through our proposal. I cannot go through no time already. I see I haven't time. Okay. Over time cannot come. Okay. Uh rest assure okay the workers party MP will be your voice fight for you your future generations in a rational responsible and respectable manner regardless whatever the challenges trials turbulences allegations the hardship we face because the workers party is a loyal opposition loyal to Singapore loyal to Singaporean vote for the workers party working for GRC working for Singapore. Okay, now let me talk to my abang and Singapur system. System Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Inshallah. Singapore. Hund. Singapura. Before that, I just basically want to share with you. Okay. Earlier yesterday uh yesterday and today actually I got a bit of uh tingling sensation in my heart. Okay. As you know uh that back in 20 m 2023 I had gone through medical procedure for heart attack. So I thought I was having another heart condition. But after a while I realized that the tingling feeling might be due to a medical condition known as melting heart. You have heard about this medical condition? No. It is a condition where I believe any heart started to melt because of the so much warmth, support and patience showed by the residents of Tempine in the last few days. Welcoming me and my teammates here in Temp GRC. It makes me feel like the Bal Kong feeling. It makes me feel that I'm still in Kakibuket w of DRC. Thank you GRC residents for making me feel at home for the past few days and looking forward to make GRC as my second home for the next 5 years. for party working for Singapore working for DRC. Thank you. Thank you, Faizal, for stepping out of your comfort zone of Aljunit GRC to step up for Tan GRC. We are now at the last speech of the night and we still have our last speaker that will be coming forward to speak to all of you. He is the leader of the opposition, Mr. Pri. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Temp. My fellow Singaporeans, residents of Temp GRC and Temp Chanka SMC. Good evening. As Singapore works to orientate itself to take advantage of the transition to a new world order, the Workers Party's commitment is that we will always work for Singapore. Our manifesto advances our vision for Singapore, for not only the country we would like to see, but the companies we would like to see. The Workers Party will push for policies to better address matters such as high rental costs for businesses and help Singaporeans to bounce back from hard times, more medave flexibility for seniors and more affordable public housing. We have advanced many practical proposals in our manifesto that appeal to the heart and the head of Singaporeans. Regardless of race, language or religion, our proposals appeal to our common humanity as one Singapore and our unity as one people. Now I know that host many savvy and sophisticated voters. I understand there are voters who have put the PAP manifesto and the WP manifesto through large language AI models and compared how they stack up against one another. Now, whichever AI model you choose, either Chat GPT or DeepS, one result is clear. The PAP manifesto is short on substance and specifics, but it is loaded with motherhood statements. Now, why is this a problem? the Singapore of the 1G PAP of 1965 at a population of less than 2 million people. Today, the 4G PAP oversees a Singapore with a population of more than 6 million people. Singapore is a far more complex society and it will always need fresh thinking. Yet, we have a PAP manifesto without specific policy ideas. believe it is because the PAP wants Singaporeans to sign a blank check. The PAP manifesto is short on specific proposals and policies. Ironically, this is one reason why there are Singaporeans who believe that as long as we have a strong and incorruptible civil service, the PAP is far less important than it thinks. Look at the PAP manifesto chapter on housing affordability, something so many Singaporeans worry about. The PAP promises to keep HTB flats affordable. But how? The only solution I can see is to increase taxpayer subsidies. Where will the taxes come from with everinccreasing land prices? They'll come from all of us. And what about lease decay? What happens when HDB flats run out their leases? They are returned to the state and they have no value. The PAP has proposed verse the voluntary early redevelopment scheme. But when the WP asks for details in parliament, the PAP says a verse is many years away. But Singaporeans, especially those who purchase resale flats, need those details now so they can plan for the future and their retirement and their golden years. Many families are buying resale flats with 60 or 70 years left on the lease at prices nearing or even surpassing a million dollars. These families need more details about verse before their resale flats start to lose value and before the families are left with little in retirement savings. What does the PAP manifesto say about this concern? Nothing at all. P. The PAP expects the civil service to work out the options and the policy details in good time. No doubt. But when these ideas are taken up by the PAP and debated in parliament, it is important that we have a rational, responsible and respectable debate in parliament about it, not a rubber stamp. This is what our vote for the workers party will give the residents of GRC and Chunka SMC. Your voice deserves a place in parliament. A vote for the Workers Party will bring it there. At these general elections, two Workers Party candidates in single member constituencies are taking on two PAP candidates who are also the NTU Secretary General and an NTU assistant secretary general respectively. Residents of Tempes, there is no shortage of PAP Labor MPs in parliament. Voting in these two PAP NTU candidates will not make a difference. Instead, I invite you to cast your vote for a more balanced parliament. Please vote for Kenneth Fu in Tan Chunka SMC and vote for Andre Lo in Jalan Caillou SMC. Voting them into parliament will make a difference. Now let me talk about PAP candidates and the NTU. In 2015 in the kakibbuket division of Aljun GRC, the PAP candidate was Shamshul Kama. He was a school teacher before the elections and he resigned to contest elections. But after losing the elections, he found employment in NTU. NTU is a safe harbor for losing PAP candidates. Just ask anime. If the two PAP candidates do not become MPs, they will probably continue to work in NTU. They will continue to serve workers with the help of rank and file unionists and workers who are truly the backbone of NTU. Now, a few days before the rid of election was issued, one social media site proclaimed that the NTU secretary general's leadership at NTU drove the launch of the jobseker support scheme. Angie Ming's work at NTU shows that he and Desmond Chu do not need to be elected to parliament to look after workers. I ask all voters and Singaporeans, keep them focused on their NTU jobs. The BAP team for Aljun GRC in these elections would probably agree with me. When they were introduced to the public some weeks ago, one member said that because his team had no anchor minister and because they were not political office holders, they would have more time to be on the ground and engage more. This PAP candidate was basically telling you it is better not to have a PAP office holder as your MP. So, let's follow his logic. We need to give the PAP candidates more time for their NTU work so they can come up with new ideas or maybe even implement WP ideas. If you give the Workers Party candidates your votes, then as MPs, they will work hard on the ground. Kenneth Fu and Andre Lo will look after the town councils in Temp Junk and Jalan Caillou. They will also be part of the loyal opposition in Singapore in parliament working for all of you. Wins, Junkad wins, Jalan Caillou wins, Singapore wins, everybody wins. But you may ask, some of you may ask, don't we need PAP NTU MPs in parliament? But here is what happened last year. Many Singaporeans spoke up against the proposed sale of income insurance by NTU Enterprise to Alian when it came to light. But members of parliament only had the opportunity to question the government in parliament on the proposed sale of NTU income for the first time in August 2024. Workers party MPs promptly file questions to call on the government to explain. Not a single PAP Labor MP asked question about this issue in parliament in August 2024. Sadly, only one mainstream media outlet saw fit to report on the silence of the PAP Labor MPs. The news outlet Channel News Asia reported and I quote, "At the parliament sitting on the 6th of August, when the topic was brought to the four, no Labor MPs filed any questions or spoke during the debate." My fellow Singaporeans, can you believe that? How is that even possible? Elected PAP MPs who champion NTU, the union and workers who represent them should fight hard in parliament when NTU issues are raised, particularly issues that Singaporeans are concerned about. Why were they silent? Now, to be clear, union work is not easy. Persuading workers while speaking up for them behind closed doors can be difficult work. I believe that rank and file unionists work hard and push hard for better rights for workers because of their passion for workers. I thank them for that. So Singapore, let us help the PAP candidates in Jalan Caillou and Tony Chankat who are the top leaders in NTU to be full-time NTU union leaders. We should save them from spending time in parliament and from managing town councils. If they wish to, they can still lobby the PAP government by virtue of NTU's symbiotic relationship with the PAP. The NTU's close relationship with the PAP ensures that NTU is a guaranteed trampoline for losing PAP candidates. It is the safest trampoline for a politician anywhere in Singapore and maybe anywhere in the world. But you must be a PAP candidate to earn the right to bounce on it. Now my friends, election come around only once every 5 years. On the 3rd of May, we have an excellent opportunity to build a more robust and balanced political system. Parliament should be where we discuss and where justified support pro- Singapore initiatives regardless of political party. And the only symbiotic relationship the workers party is interested in is a symbiotic relationship with all Singaporeans. Parliament is where the Workers Party will work hard for you rationally and responsibly. for the Workers Party working for Singapore. Now, let me end my speech with the Workers Party rallying a cry for all our workers. It is different from the PAPs. Please repeat after me. Majula Singapura Mula Singapura Singapura Mula Singapura. Thank you. Now, my fellow Singaporeans, before I end, I want to share some thoughts on the Prime Minister's press conference earlier this afternoon. It was a serious press conference, so please hear me out. The Prime Minister took a break from the political campaign to speak as a Singaporean. He said, and I quote, "I'm not here to talk about my concerns about the party. I'm here to talk about my concerns for Singapore and our country." Unquote. So, let me give the prime minister the courtesy of doing the same for the next one minute. I am a Singaporean. This is the only home I know. I don't have investment properties overseas. I entered politics to advance and champion a better Singapore than the one I was born in. One that is more just and fairer for all Singaporeans, including our minorities. I passionately believe in a raceneutral Singapore where we are judged not by our race or the color of our skin but by our deeds and our common humanity. My colleagues and I categorically reject the involvement of any foreign element whatsoever in our domestic politics. Singapore is our business, nobody else's. And if I can put on my party hat to any foreign element, the Workers Party does not need your support. We only need the support of our people, our fellow Singaporeans. Thank you, Temp. Thank you. Thank you, Temp. Have a good evening. Thank you. This morning really a small request for everyone. Please go home safely. Make sure every single piece of litter is cleared from the school compound. And I'll see you at our next rally. All the very best. Thank you. Ankle. Ankle. Ankle. Thank you everyone. We have come to the end of the workers party rally. Please uh exit the venue calmly, slowly and orderly because um the exit can be quite narrow for this crowd. So uh we seek your cooperation and we see you at our next rally. Thank you everyone. Thank you. Where is the next? Thank you. Thank you. Oh, now everybody follow 190. What do you say? Life.