Hello. Good evening everyone. Thank you for being here today. Uh just some admin instructions before the rally starts. Okay. So, so sorry the toilets in the school compound cannot be used. Okay. So, the nearest portable toilets they are actually at my 2:00. Okay. Uh you see the colorful bus over there. Okay, there are some portable toilets over there. So if you really need to use a toilet and you're willing to give out your covered seats, okay, you can proceed there. Okay, second thing is if there is a lightning alert, okay, the rally will be suspended for your safety. Okay, sorry I don't like ling actually triggers you. Okay. So, so sorry. So sorry. So sorry. Okay. Okay. So if there is a lightning alert, please proceed in an orderly manner to the nearest HTB block for shelter. Okay. Okay. I know y'all don't like lightning. What do you like? Hammer. Okay. So uh I'm going to speak in Mandarin first uh for the benefit of those who uh are more proficient in Mandarin. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Male or male. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. But lightning a bit dangerous. Okay. So uh welcome residents of Pongo GRC, Sang Kang GRC and Jalang Caillou SMC and friends and supporters from all over Singapore to the third Workers Party rally for general elections 2025. Okay. So, uh I'm uh Angry Ping, right? Uh today I'm doing my side hustle as an MC. So, as you can hear, it is really a side hustle. Okay. So uh I wish you'll give your strongest support to our speakers tonight. Okay. So stay tuned for very rousing and inspiring speeches from my fellow colleagues behind. Okay. So without further ado, let me introduce our first speaker of the night. Okay. He is Mr. Abdul Muimin bin Abdul Malik, candidate for Sang GRC. Let's welcome him. Good evening fellow Singaporeans and a warm hello to all tuning in. I am Muay and the workers party candidate for Sankang JRC. First and foremost, can I share a personal story? Yes or no? After 5 years of marriage, my wife and I decided we were ready to start a family. Praise be to God. We are expecting a little one soon. But why did it take us five years? It wasn't about the decision to have a child. It was about preparing ourself for the challenges ahead. The rising cost of living, the pressure to plan for our child's future, work demands, and the responsibility of caring aging parents. Our story is not unique. Many younger couples today face similar challenges. For many, a pressing concern when starting a family is the cost. Right now, even preschool can cost more than your primary or secondary school fees. On paper, the fees might look manageable, but you also need to pay for milk powders, diapers, and caregiving needs. It can be a stretch financially. Today, fee caps only apply to government supported preschools, which serve only 65% of preschoolers in 2024. And what if these centers near you are full? You are left scrambling to find another one further away. That could mean extra cost, extra, extra time, and extra stress. That's why the workers party is proposing direct vouchers that parents can use at preschools of their choice. Families deserve more flexibility in choosing early education that fits their values and needs because every family and child is different. And speaking of different family circumstances, let's talk about stay-at-home moms. Currently, they don't get the same preschool subsidies as working moms. But are they really not working? They are working tirelessly to build strong families and a stronger society. They are caring for elderly parents, managing their home, and raising children full-time. This is why WP calls for these subsidies to be extended to all families. Many of these stay-at-home moms face difficult choice between work and caregiving. Some didn't really have a choice. But what happened when they step away to be full-time caregivers. Many lose out not just in income but on subsidies, retirement savings, and career progressions. and they continue to lose out even when they are ready to return to work. Many face real struggles. Some have been on the workforce, sorry, some have been out of the workforce for years, so their skills may be outdated, but support for their return is limited. My fellow Singaporeans, much more can be done to reintegrate caregivers into workforce such as tax relief to supportive employers, government supported paid return to work programs that guarantee a per a permanent job at the end. Stepping away to care for loved ones should not be a step back. And it's not just about career breaks. Even taking time off to care for sick child can feel like a penalty. Right now both parents get just 12 days of child care leave combined for the whole year. But what if the child often fall sick or for longer periods of time? Do the parents step on unpaid infant care leave and annual leave? Why should raising a child come at the cost of unpaid leave? Why should parents have to sacrifice their annual leave which they may also need to care for their elderly parents or even just to rest and recharge themselves. If we truly want to be a Singapore that supports families, parents should not have to choose between jobs, their children, and their well-being. We need policies that support families holistically. And that means valuing both children and the people raising them. We know that policies only matter when they work for real people in real life. If you believe that families deserve better support, I hope you'll give us your trust. Don't worry your voting for opposition because your vote is secret. Riot Singapuri. city. Agent agent Party politics. Vote for Workers Party and you'll never walk alone because we are working for Singapore. Thank you. Okay, thank you Muhammoving speech. Next up, we have a former keyboard warrior turned politician, Mr. Jackson Alchi Ming candidate from Pongo GRC. Please welcome him. Good evening, residents of Pongol GRC. It is so good to see so many of you here tonight. My name is Jackson and I'm proud to be standing here with the Workers Party. After my first rally speech, some residents told me that they liked my fire. But honestly, I know I come across as a little angry. I understand where they are coming from, but I will not apologize because I'm here to fight for all Singaporeans. And if I am angry, it is because I care. I care about how Singaporeans are treated and I care about making things better for them. If you feel angry, too, it is because you care and you know we can be so much better. I'm not sorry that some people call me a stranger and say I'm not welcome here. I'm also not sorry that I didn't come from Tuajukang GRC or that I'm special friends with Lawrence Wong. This is because Alia, Alexis, Harprit and I, we are a solid solid team and we will work hard for you. I'm like many of you. I'm a young Singaporean and I'm proud of it. I'm just trying to do my best. When I started my first job, I was an auditor for a local company. And let me tell you, I found out very quickly I didn't quite like the numbers. The real numbers are the long hours and the poor work life balance. Many of you can relate to this even today. Thankfully, I later found my calling in a different field, communications. So tonight, I want to tell you a story about Singapore through four numbers. Because behind each number is a story. A story about ordinary Singaporeans, about growing inequality, about the squeezed middle class, and the rising desire for change, which I've heard loud and clear from all of you in the past week. The first number I want to share is 2.06. $26. That is the cost of a one-way trip from Pongol MRT to downtown MRT for a standard adult. For many of us, this is a cost we bear twice a day, 5 days a week, and sometimes even more. Over the past 5 years, public transport fairs have risen over and over again. Four consecutive years of fair hikes. And even though prices go up, reliability has not. Trains break down. They are overcrowded. You feel it immediately. The frustration and the exhaustion. Anyone who's tried changing lines at Sarangun or Bishan during peak hours knows exactly what I'm talking about. And the LRT here in Pongo, it is overcrowded, struggling under the weight of our growing population. We know this and we live this. This is why we are pushing for a national transport corporation so we can reinvest profits back into you the commuters. Ensure that there are cheaper fairs, optimize our LRT and MRT infrastructure and overall enhance services and transparency. The second number I want to share with you is 1055. $1,055. This is the monthly allowance for an NSF third sergeant. Sart the number may vary slightly depending on your rank but the message is the same. You obviously did not serve for the money. You served because it was your duty. You gave up two years of your life and every year after you continue to serve balancing work, your career, your family and reserve duties. So if you see Janil and Gang Kim Yong around, please ask them to tell you about the NS experience. I'm sure they will have something to share. The government says your contribution cannot be measured in dollars and cents. They are right. Let's stop pretending that token words and the annual wyangs are enough. Let's truly recognize that NS is a sacrifice and it it requires proper recognition. At the very least, let us call let us stop calling it an allowance and start calling what it should be a salary with CPF contributions. This is how the workers party values your contribution to our national security. The third number I'm sharing with you is $500,000. Half a million dollars. Okay, this is what more than half of Singaporeans believe it costs to raise a child up to the age of 21 according to the 2024 Sing Life Financial Freedom Index. So, if you are a new parent receiving your SG60 baby bonus pack this year, firstly, my congratulations to you. But ask yourself, is this really enough? Raising a child in Singapore today is not easy. Young families face rising child care costs, limited parental leave, long BTO weight times. The Workers Party understands this. We have proposed real, meaningful, and long-term solutions and support. We're not giving you one-off grants, and we're not giving you teddy bears and laboo. What we're calling for is enhanced parental and childare leave, flexible working arrangements, shorter BTO weight times, and reforms in our education system, giving families the choice to skip the PSLE if it is in their child's best interest. And young singles, don't worry. We are not leaving you out. We are also pushing for you, too, to be able to buy your homes earlier because you matter as well. So if you ask me, the PAP, they are the real strangers to the struggles of Singaporeans today. They don't live in HDBs the way the majority of Pongo residents do. They don't squeeze onto the LRTs, the MRTs, or the buses. They drive around in their Porsches and their Audi. And they definitely don't need to worry about whether one tan me cost $5 or pasta cost $18. In fact, my team and I found out recently during one of our lunches at Waterway Points, you can get pretty good pasta here for less than that. So, in a nutshell, can they really understand what Singaporeans are going through? Representation requires empathy. Empathy comes from living what Singaporeans live every day. The final number I'm sharing with you is this. 61,780. I'm going to say that again. 61,780. This is not a dollar amount. It is not a statistic. This is you. It's your family and it's your future. 61,780 is the minimum number of votes we need here in Pongo JRC to give the Workers Party the privilege and honor of serving you in parliament. This number represents your voice, your hope, your desire for a better future. If you believe in our vision and if you have hope for a better Singapore, then please give us your support and add to that number. If we win, we won't just be making history. We will be sending a clear message that you want to be heard. Bongol wants to be heard and Pongal wants to change. So please remember this number 61,780. Whatever you do, make your vote count and make your voice heard. Vote for the Workers Party. Okay, thanks Jackson for that very really fiery speech. Okay, so as a psychologist, let me give you a professional advice. Okay. So if you are angry, you can take three deep breaths and then tell yourself, "Vote Workers Party working for Singapore." Okay. Next up, our third speaker, uh, Mr. Kenneth Tong, candidate for our Junit GRC. Please welcome him. Friends, fellow Singaporeans, my name is Kennethong. I am running to be a member of parliament in Aljunit GRC. Today, I want to speak about why I stand here with the Workers Party. I found in the workers party a group of Singaporeans who are driven by ideals. The people of this party are not here for titles, positions or material benefit. They are Singaporeans like you and me who give their precious time and sometimes even their own money purely because of what they believe in. The possibility of a better Singapore. the belief that Singapore deserves a real choice. And to be that credible choice to earn your trust, we hold ourselves to clear standards. Our leader Ram Singh spoke about the workers party being rational, respectable, responsible, our three Rs, our guiding principles. But tonight I tell you that there's a fourth R that defines us now. Ready. We are ready. Ready to listen. Ready to serve. Ready to fight for you. That's why I'm proud to stand with this party. Our ideas and principles compel us to listen closely to your concerns and propose the solutions you need. Let me give three examples. Work, NS, and justice. Work. What happens if you are retrenched? It's a worry we all share. As far back as 2006, the Workers Party called for unemployment insurance, a safety net. repeated it in manifesto after manifesto, pushed it in parliament. It took until 2023, 17 years later, for the government to announce temporary support. Only this year, in 2025, a scheme took shape. We saw the need decades ago. We believe you deserve security today, not after years of waiting. NS think about our sons, our brothers, our friends serving national service. Is their allowance fair? Does it meet the rising cost we all feel? My colleague Gerald Gam didn't think so. In 2023, he demanded better. Months later, allowances went up. He pushed again this year and they went up again. Why? Because defending our nation deserves fair compensation. It's common sense. It's what's right. And what about justice? Should your access to a lawyer depend on how much money you have? Uring Ru and Sylvia Lim said no. They called for fair access for everyone. That same day, the government acknowledged the need and moved for a public defenders office. Today it exists. Is our system perfect? No. But is it fairer because the Workers Party was there speaking up? Yes. This is the pattern. We listen to your concerns. We research. We propose solutions. Often years become before they become popular or even common sense. We bring a voice to parliament. We push. We persuade. And maybe not many people watch the parliament live stream, just a few hundred people. But we fight for you policy by policy, step by step. What's still on the table? The work is never done. Today, we fight for mandatory retrenchment benefits, independent unions to safeguard your rights as employees, truly affordable housing, among others. Some people try to label us papite, one step to the left. Let me tell you what it's really about. It's not left or right. It's about the future versus the past. Are we building the Singapore of tomorrow, facing today's challenges head on, or are we stuck looking backwards? No matter how great yesterday was, yesterday is over. The Workers Party has its eyes firmly on the future because you, the people of Singapore, are in our hearts. So when they call us PAP light, I say maybe they've got it backwards. Maybe the PAP is WP late. Think about it. If you want a preview of the sensible PAP policies of 2030, vote for WP in 2025. get those policies 5 years earlier when they actually matter for the challenges you have right now. Now you hear the PAP responding, digging through archives saying, "Oh, we mentioned that idea in 2008 or we needed time to study." Friends, they talk about study time, 17 years for unemployment support while they studied. Did your bills wait? Did your family struggles pause? Whatever label they put on that long process, the undeniable outcome for Singaporeans was delayed. Friends, that cause of delay is paid by you. Ultimately, whether they admit it or not, whether the final policy is a perfect copy or slightly different, our relentless push on unemployment support on NS pay on getting justice for scam victims, force them to act. It delivered progress. It made a difference in your lives. That is the outcome we fight for. The outcome for Singaporeans that matters. So why wait? Why wait for a delayed, watered down version of a good idea? Why settle for policies playing catchup? You deserve leaders who don't just monitor but act. You deserve solutions that are fresh, relevant, and address your life today. The cost of living, the pressures, the dreams you have for your family. You deserve a party that is ready, ready to represent you, ready to shape a better future starting right now. So this GE So this GE, make your vote count. Vote the Workers Party. Vote for the party that is always ready to work for Singapore. Thank you. Thank you, Kenneth. Okay, just an appeal before the next speaker. For those seated in the middle of the field, can you please stand up? Please stand up. Those seated in the middle of the field. Yes. Middle. Yeah. Okay. Stand up and and take a step forward so that your fellow workers party supporter at the back can move forward. Thank you very much for your cooperation. Thank you for showing the Singapore spirit. Okay, please be careful. Stay safe. Just move forward slowly. Thank you very much. And for those behind who can't hear the speeches, well, please turn on the live streaming on your headphone to hear our passions better. Okay. Next up, our Kaki Nang, Mr. Luis Chua Kangi from the Sang Kang GRC. Good evening voters of S Kangi, Bongo GRC and Jalan Caillou SMC. First, I wish to say thank you to every sing your support since the last election. Thank you for your courage. Thank you for your trust. And today I stand before you again because our work is not finished. We need to keep pushing for a fairer Singapore, a more livable Singapore. And to do this, we need your support to keep opposition voices and WPMPs in parliament. Allow me to speak in Mandrin today. Foreign foreign. Woman eating. for TCMR. Fore! Fore!chch! Fore may your way. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! E by 2011 E by Poopy dancing. Ping. Yeah. Fore dancing. Singapore. Fore speech. foreign. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Okay. So we hear that in S Kang GRC our town council is all green but for Bongo and Jalanka SMC we want to turn them from green to Yes. Okay. So next up we have City Aliyia Binti Abdul Rahim Mata candidate from Pongo GRC. Hi, good evening everyone. My name is Alia Matar and together with my teammates Jackson, Alexis and Harprit, we are a solid solid team running for Pongol GRC. When I graduated from law school, I went into litigation. After 2 years, I decided this was not for me. So, I took a leap of faith and moved into financial law, something that was completely new and unfamiliar to me. Since then, I have spent 8 years as legal counsel in the monetary authority of Singapore. And when I left, I continued to stay in the financial industry. While Pungal may be new to us, the ideas and aspirations of Pungal residents are very familiar. Like many of you, I am a parent. I look after my aged parents. Also like many of you in our engagements with you Pongal residents, you voiced many concerns including transport walls, internet connectivity, loud jets flying overhead, rising food prices and at the same time you shared worries about the increasing cost and stress of bringing up children in Singapore, including those with special needs. You, like me, are concerned about the mental anxiety placed on our children with the existing pressure cooker system of education. Just earlier today, I met a Pungal resident, a caregiver to her 22year-old daughter with cerebral palsy. Her joint household income means that she is not qualified for some subsidies and yet the cost of medical equipment for her child is much much more due to her special needs. Not to mention the mental state of her as a parent with a child of special needs. Children need support, but so do caregivers. Something we sometimes forget. Our senior citizens, they are anxious about rising medical costs. Many of them do not have a steady income. They are concerned about having to pay GST on parts of their medication, having their medicine kept to a certain amount even for chronic conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you, whose money is in our CPF accounts? Whose money is in our Medicafe accounts? It is our hard-earned money meant to pay for our medical cost in our old age. This is not asking for handouts. It is trying to take care of ourselves with our own money. Ladies and gentlemen, there was an article recently by Tanu Chair, former group chief executive of NTU Enterprises. and let me quote him. We live in a troubled world. Citizens must speak up on matters that affect our collective future, especially when decisions are taken in our name. These are not acts of division. They are acts of care for our country and for the institutions we rely upon. We keep hearing the term behind closed doors. That heated debates and discussions had already taken place behind closed doors. That some people have friends in higher places where they can ask for special help even for national programs apparently. Is this right? Can you accept this? This is our nation. We are the stakeholders. Involve us in the decisions especially when they are taken in our name and on our behalf. This term behind closed doors should be retired. Should it not? The Workers Party is transparent. We are open. We say what we do and we do what we say. Our policies are based on what Singaporeans, the stakeholders of our nation are asking for. We are a party that accepts the diversity of Singapore because we know what unites us matters way more than what divides. So ladies and gentlemen, Pungo voters, it is time for change. Vote the Workers Party. working for Singapore. A few words in Malay. National level plans. GRC. Eagle Parliament Singapore. Thank you. Okay, thank you Alia for the very open speech. Okay, good evening everyone. We are currently at maximum capacity for this rally site. Thank you so much for your support. But we are unable to admit any more people into the rally. Thank you for your understanding and cooperation. Please continue to support us by watching the live streaming uh on your mobile phones. Okay, next up. Okay, our very own OPA Jameus Jerome Lim. Good evening to our 200. Thank you. Good evening to our 280,000 bosses from Sinkang, Pongo and Jalanga USMC. The past few years have not been an easy time for Singaporeans. We watch as prices surge on things that we eat, use, and depend on used to be $3, but it's now four or five. A full tank is now $100 or more. So, riding the bus or taking a taxi is more expensive. Bills from the electricity company, the tutor, the doctor are all up. Good luck finding your own place or upgrading with milliondoll HDB flats. What has the PAP done to help you cope with this rising cost of living? It is now a standard playbook. They give out ever more vouchers. more SG60 vouchers, CDC vouchers, GST vouchers, USA vouchers for companies. It's also more of the same. More tax breaks, more tax relief. Many Singaporeans rightly judge that such measures are short-term, address only the symptoms, and hence deeply unsatisfactory. We would rather lift ourselves up than to feel patronized and dependent on the system where we need handouts. These may be necessary in emergencies like COVID 19, but a continued dependence on them suggests a problem with the system itself. Reducing reducing the burden of regulation and taxes is surely welcome, especially for struggling small businesses. But to keep coddling rich multinationals cheapens our country's value proposition. What is worse, the government has only added fuel to the flame of rising costs. They insisted on raising GST in 2023 when inflation was already raging and when there were easily other sources of revenue available. They've been slow to release more vehicle quotas even in a low volume year, thereby allowing COE prices to escalate to as much as $150,000. and they're stubbornly stuck to a land pricing formula that embeds the price of land into public housing valuations, effectively passing on the potential bubble in land prices on to resale HDB flats. But the PAP seems to have no better ideas on how to address these problems other than more handouts and more vouchers. High cost of living aren't just because the world at large has experienced post-pandemic inflation. High cost of living in Singapore are as much a homemade structural problem demanding structural solutions since they were manufactured by the PAP. Think about HDB. Conceived in good faith, it served our nation's housing housing needs for more than a century. But owning our homes is now a juggling act, a balance between affordable housing, enough returns for retirement, and having a roof over our heads. Like any juggling act, however, these balls will eventually come crashing down. These competing goals are fundamentally irreconcilable and the way the government has qu tried to square the circle has been to give ever greater grants and subsidies to new homeowners. But this fosters a rentier mindset. People buy and flip cashing out after the MOP. Yet speculation breeds more speculation since sellers know that the government will make up the shortfall. The M andd budget gets redder and redder. But apparently this is prudent policy. Whereas pricing land less is raiding the reserves. And high land valuations don't just affect the prices of our homes. Costly land means high rents. And high rents are killing our companies. The government says that rents are only a small part of business costs, but they do not affect food prices, but they fail to see that rent gets passed through to everything else without acknowledging that their land policy is a problem. How can the PAP solve a problem of high cost of living? Now that prices are already high, the only way where we can all cope with the rising cost of living is to have our incomes rise. We will then worry less if our high sal if our salaries have adjusted accordingly. But the government has been too passive in urg urging businesses to embrace this sorely needed adjustment. They've worked with the National Wages Council to issue guidelines for raising salaries but only for lower wage workers. Yet the rest of us face high prices too. And for the retired, they have stubbornly refused to adjust how CPF pays interest even as retirees hard-earned nest eggs are eaten up. This government needs to take stronger leadership on the economy and make sure that the overdue increase in our incomes comes sooner rather than later. The decades and decades of parliamentary supermajority that the PAP has enjoyed has bred policy complacency, intellectual stagnation, and unimaginative thinking. This is no longer your father and my grandfather's pap. The modern PAP has shown itself beereft of good ideas and necessary reforms that are able to address the complex and evolving problems of the 21st century. Now the PAP calls for unity. The Workers Party believes in a united Singapore. But we cannot, we must not blindly unite in voting for the PAP. If we did, we will be trapped with the same old ideas and lack of diversity needed for problems that demand permanent structural solutions. Some have suggested that the PAP is trying to conjure up the politics of fear to scare voters into choosing a safe harbor in turbulent times. But my fear is more a parliament dominated by only one way of thinking and looking at the world which will only mean disaster for the future of our country. How can we be sure that a one party government will take your concerns seriously if they are we aren't there to speak truth to power? How can we be certain that highly paid ministers are not subject to group think and disconnected from h from the things that truly matter on the ground to you and I? How do we know that there will be a future for ourselves and our children when Singaporeans are not choking under the pressure of high prices and high costs? We need fresh ideas and new perspectives for our change world. The Workers Party has consistently championed innovative policy proposals in parliament. The PAP dismisses our arguments calling them theoretical or irrelevant. But then 10 or 20 years later, they show up in government policy. Let us be your voices that the government has can no longer choose to ignore. Voices that know how you feel because we talk to you. We listen and we learn. Voices that empathize with your struggles because we feel them, too. voices that don't just go with what this government wants, but what the people you want. These are the voices of the people and the workers party working for you, working for Singapore. Okay, thank you. Next up, a candidate who is no stranger to all of you, our very own Alexis Z. foreignch. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore dreaming. forchech. Fore speech. Fore fashion. Fore fashion. Okay, I'll use uh English to speak a few words now. Good evening, Pongo residents. It's been a real pleasure meeting so many of you over the past few days. We are truly humbled by your warmth and honesty. Thank you for sharing your concerns with us. If given the chance, we promise to act on them immediately. I would also like to address some comments made by the ruling party. At the last PAP rally, Miss Shering said, "We do not need strangers to come to Pongal." May I ask is she referring to DPM Ging Yongu or is he exempted because he's good friend of PM Lawrence Wong? Before last Friday, I was an ordinary citizen just like you, and I have deep respect for our country's leaders. But when I hear statements like, "I will talk to my good friend," it reflects a troubling reality about our politics today. Is Is this the kind of leadership that we want to endorse? Is this the political culture we want to pass on to our children? Where success isn't about fairness but about connections? In another speech, our retiring DPM Huik said, "Look at countries that have diverse parties. What do they do? They talk talk talk. Nothing gets done." But why are we only comparing with countries that falter? Why do we assume Singaporeans aren't smart enough to chart our own unique political path? If we use that logic, does it mean that we shouldn't be asking for salary increment just because there are other people who earn less? We deserve better and we can do better. In GE 2020, PAP parachuted DPM hang into East Coast GRC, forcing voters into a difficult choice between more balanced politics and keeping a future PM. East Coast voters made that sacrifice. But where is East Coast plan today? Is he even our prime minister now? And again, they are trying to pull the same stunts in Pongo, forcing you into a corner. Is it really? Is it really that wrong to want a more balanced parliament? If we allow this tactic to succeed again, make no mistake, it will be repeated at the expense of all Singaporean Pongo residents. Whether you are here with us today or you are in front of your screen, if you are watching this, you've asked for a credible opposition and we have answered. We have fielded a very good team here. A solid solid team. So I urge all of you, say no to using key government figures as political pawns. Say no to being forced into difficult choices when all we want is progress. Say no to falling for the same trick twice because we deserve better. Harp Jackson Aliyia and I have stepped up for you. Pongo residents, it's now your turn to step up for all Singaporeans. Say no to them and vote workers party working for Singapore. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for the support. Do we look like strangers to you? Okay. Next up, our very own proud silver passion card holder, Miss Sylvia Linian. Good evening, fellow Singaporeans. As you know, I've been in politics for some time, but this is the first time I'm speaking at a rally in Pongo. And the air smells good. Tonight I would like to speak to you about the women candidates that the Workers Party is fielding at this election. Being an opposition candidate in Singapore is a high stakes, high-risk activity. Politics can be a nasty business and for women in opposition, it can be tricky. If you're elected into parliament, we are expected to confront government ministers robustly, but perhaps not too aggressively. However, over the years in parliament, I have been called many names and been fiercely attacked by some ministers. But I fought back with everything I had. And luckily for me, my husband found these qualities attractive. I hope he's come back from his dinner. I don't. My friends, we need women political leaders and women representatives in parliament, especially in the opposition. This is necessary to ensure that our policies for Singapore are more balanced and sustainable. There are many studies that show that countries where people are the happiest also tend to have relatively more women in political leadership positions. Citizens of these countries feel confident and secure because the countries tend to prioritize social outcomes such as work life balance, health, and supporting those in need. After the general election in 2011, I spoke at the opening of Parliament. I called for the government to measure whether its policies have resulted in happiness, well-being, and contentment in Singaporeans. I recall being mocked for it by the PAP ministers and backbentures. But today, this is becoming more and more accepted as international best practice. So what is the Workers Party doing about empowering more women in politics? My friends, it was 22 years ago that I was elected as the chair of the Workers Party. 22 years ago. And I have to say I have outlasted four male chairman of the PAP. and I've yet to see a female chair on their side. Next, we try our best to find capable female candidates to stand for election. This is not easy for the opposition. This year, I'm pleased to report that WP is feuding six women. Tonight I would like to share with you why I think they are women of substance who will speak up for you fearlessly and defend your interest in parliament. So first let me start with the two ladies fielded in Pongo. First, Alia Ma. Alia identifies herself first as a mother of three teenagers. You can be assured that she will be fully committed to pushing for policies that families care about such as in the areas of housing costs and education. And did you know that she's a lawyer by profession who has worked in the monetary authority of Singapore for eight years? She is now an in-house legal council in a multinational corporation and she will be able to scrutinize government bills effectively. The second lady for Pongal is Alexis Deng. She has years of experience in banking before transiting to the technology sector where she works in advertising technology promoting partnerships with media owners to drive revenue growth for clients. She's effectively bilingual as you saw in English and Chinese. and spent her childhood abroad due to family circumstances. As a young Singaporean, she will be able to share the concerns of many Pongal residents and push for change in areas affecting young families and singles. for Tan GRC. We are fielding Elen Chong Pan. She was a diplomat with the Singapore Ministry of Foreign Affairs for seven years and has a good understanding of regional and international affairs. She's now working in the philanthropic sector seeking to bring about positive outcomes in early childhood development, education, and youth mental well-being. If she's elected, she will be able to handle both domestic and foreign issues. And next for East Coast GRC, we have Paris V. Paramaswari, our Navy woman. She rose from the ranks in the Navy, worked in insurance before joining the US Navy in Singapore as a security administrator. Besides being a wife and parent, she knows what it is like to obtain a degree through part-time studies, just as many of you are doing. With her strong spirit of volunteerism, she has worked with people who have taken lives hard knocks, such as crime victims and ex-offenders. Paris will contribute her rich experiences to parliament if she's elected. As for Miss Hurting Ru who was MP for Senkong for the last 5 years. Do I need to say more? She has proven herself more than capable of handling her parliamentary duties and being chairman of the Sang Town Council. All while being the mother of three children under the age of 10. And for our jun GRC, you still have me. So my friends, looking at our slate of female candidates this GE, all I can say is Mama Bear here is proud. So how will we serve your interest as opposition MPs in parliament? We want Singapore to succeed. We want our parents to age well. our children to be safe and happy. We want a vibrant environment where everyone can reach their full potential. We want strong communities and a resilient spirit. The difference between opposition MPs and PAP MPs is that we can reject government policies that we do not think are in the interest of Singaporeans. My friends, let me end on a broader and more serious note. In my 20 plus years with WP, I can confidently say that this batch of our candidates, both men and women, is the most promising batch that WP has fielded. And therefore there is a key message for you our dear voters in Aljunit Hang. Senkang, Pongo, Jalan, Caillou, East Coast, Temp and Tanese Chunk. If these candidates do not get elected this time, there may be no next time. The electoral boundaries may change. So there is no time to waste on this. Let us not dither about whether to cast your vote for WP this time or not. If you do not do it this time, you may not have a chance the next time. So let May the 3rd, 2025 be your moment. Vote for a stronger Singapore. Vote for the Workers Party. working for Singapore. Okay, let me ask you this. Are you happy with the PAP? Are you happy with the workers party? Okay, good news guys. Okay, the crowd situation has improved. Can I seek your help to stand up and move forward so that we can emit more people now? Please, we seek your cooperation. Please stand up, move forward so that more people can feel our passion. Okay, please move forward slowly. Please be safe. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you for showing the Singaporean spirit. Please move forward, but please be safe. Okay, next up our candidate for Jalang Cayou Single Member Constituency, our one and only Andre Lu Yang. Thank you. I may be short in stature, but I hope I can rise above. All right. Good evening, my friends, my neighbors. Go Lingi. Man, it feels good to be here among my fellow Pongolas. I live not too far from here, but I didn't grow up here. So, I don't know if you think I qualify to be a son of Pongol or not. But on a more serious note, last week I stood before you as a stranger. Tonight, I hope you see me as someone who understands your concerns, shares your hopes, and is ready to fight for our community. I spent many many hours walking the ground for the past two years and what I've heard is clear. Everything is so expensive now. This sentiment echoes in almost every conversation at the copyam at the hawker center from retirees to working adults to young families alike. We all feel the same way. Let's be frank. Singapore is becoming unaffordable for everyday ordinary people. Fore. But you know what frustrates me the most? It's when I hear the ministries tell us that oh actually inflation rate is falling. That's what they said in February this year. But the reality is different. You and me on the ground when we go to the supermarket, do we see our prices falling? I didn't think so. and a retiree. They cut back on the simple joys that they used to take for granted. isn't just about statistics. This is about dignity. It's about whether Singaporeans are able to afford a decent standard of living in our own land. The Workers Party has consistently opposed the GST hike. You know, we're not against taxes, but because GST hits lower and middle inome households the hardest. That 2% increase might seem trivial to those in ivory towers. But for many, it's the difference between comfort and anxiety. We propose exempting essential items from GST. basic food items, utilities, medicines, textbooks, and school supplies. We want tiered pricing for utilities. Lower consumption means lower rates. This benefits smaller households, our seniors and pioneers, and those who conserve resources and look after our green earth. Why should ordinary families have to pay the same rates as those who live in GCBs and black and whites with wine sellers, lifts at home, and multiple air con running 24/7. Housing remains the biggest expense for most Singaporeans. The financial burden is there for the youngest and if they don't have a stable roof over their heads, how can they even begin of thinking of starting a family? Wait times of four to five years for BTO flats. When did this become the norm? When did this become acceptable? In 1989, the wait time was just two to three years. The government has finally admitted there is a problem. But what is their solution? Re-calibrating. That's a new one for you. To have more flats with weight times under three years. Under three years. That is their optimistic goal. Shouldn't that be the ceiling, the maximum, not a goal to aspire to? The Workers Party will continue to push the government to bring BTO weight times back to what they were before. Not eventually, not gradually, but now. We also believe that 28-year-old singles should be allowed to apply for BTO flats, not just those AED 35 and above. It's not just for singles. You know, single mothers are considered singles, too. They have a family. Why shouldn't they be able to provide a roof for their children? Our times have changed. Policies should change, too. Is this Let me tell you about a former schoolmate of mine. She's 34 years old this year, just like me. She earns a good salary. She's single. She wants independence, but if she wants a BTO, by the time she has a roof over her head, she'll be pushing 40. Is this the Singapore we want? Where hardworking adults don't have the dignity of their own space until they are 40 years old. These are not just isolated policy proposals. They represent a fundamentally different vision of Singapore, a fresh perspective, new ideas. The PAP believes in trickle down prosperity. Keep the economy growing and everyone eventually benefits. But that's not happening anymore, is it? Our GDP grows, but many Singaporeans feel like they've been left behind. We, the Workers Party, we believe in an economy that works for everyone where prosperity is measured not just by GDP, but by whether ordinary people can afford to live well. And this is why the Workers Party is proposing a national minimum wage, $1,600, a simple number, a universal baseline that says if you work full-time, you deserve a living wage. But I stand before you tonight with not just words, but with a commitment to work. If elected, I will push relentlessly for these policies in parliament. I will be your voice when decisions affecting your livelihoods and futures are made. I have no doubt my opponent is a good man. I have nothing against him personally. But what he represents is a party that has allowed these issues to fester. A party that raised GST twice during a cost of living crisis. A party that monitors while housing p prices spiral beyond our reach. My friends, on the 3rd of May, you have a choice. You can vote for more of the same or you can vote for representatives who will fight for a more affordable Singapore. For a Singapore that truly supports families. For a Singapore that truly cares about its people. I'm Andre Lao, your workers party candidate for Jalanka USMC. Now I want to end with this call to action. Over the past week, a string of PAP prime ministers, past and present, have lined up to ask Singaporeans for a strong mandate. I say we send them a strong message. Vote for change. Vote for hope. Vote for the Workers Party. Thank you and good night. Okay, my fellow Singaporeans, let me ask you this. How do you get the PAP to press the leave button to take the leave down from their ivory towers? You vote for the You vote for the vote for the You vote for the vote. Thank you. Next up, our very own Harpoon to the heart of Papre Singh. Thank you. How king vote GRC team and one tick. come support. I would like to spend a short while addressing our Malay friends from Pongol GRC. Really sight. situ. Senior sing issue issue. You just got your answer. Issue issue. Rising cost of living, education, issue issue. So that support uni. vote for the workers party. Uh my fellow Singaporeans, I want to move on to my speech in English and I want to address right up three big questions that residents of Pongul GRC have asked our team in our walkabouts over the last few days. The first big question, what will you do for us if we vote for you? Now on Saturday, the PAP team acknowledged that there is still a lot to do to improve Pongol. They have plans, but I have news. We have plans, too. First up, let's get this point out of the way. It is important to understand that the national level plans such as the Pungal Digital District, those are going to continue regardless who is voted in. Those are national plans. For example, if voters in East Coast GRC vote our team therein, the construction of terminal 5 Changi Airport is not going to stop. Anyway, that was never part of the East Coast plan. Second, the difference will lie in the way your constituency and Pongal GRC is run. Let me explain that we if we are elected will take over the town council and we will run it effectively and as best as possible. You can ask your friends and family in Sang, has the condition of S Kang gone down after the workers party took over? Absolutely not. What will be the approach of our team in the way we run Congol GRC if elected? Two words. We listen because Pongo GRC residents, you know best. You live in this area. You walk around the streets here day in day out. You know where the gaps are. You know where the seep edges are. You know where the covered walkway stopped. You know where your children get drenched in the rain. You know exactly what needs to be improved in Pongol. We are not going to act like bureaucrats pushing paper thinking we know better than you. So rest assured our team will conduct town halls to get your input. We will use other platforms and forum to get your input including those online. Rest assured, you will drive the agenda for what needs to be done in Pongol and we will be your servants. Yes. We will have our parliamentary duties if we are elected. There will be national issues to speak about both concerns of residents in Pongulong and our fellow Singaporeans. But these municipal issues on the ground, they affect all our daily lives and our team will give them equal attention. We will do that. Now, let me make this other point. The PAP team on the other side has three office holders. They have busy jobs downtown, but we will be here for you listening and acting. And let me say this of myself. I have publicly said this and I repeat this commitment to you voters of Pongol GRC. If elected, I will give practically all of my time to you. And that's because I will be pairing down my legal work and committing more and more time to you and fellow Singaporeans to talk about the things that are important for our country. I have that privilege and I intend to use that privilege for all of you and for our fellow Singaporeans. So you will have certainly my undivided attention. Now uh the beauty of it is this. Pongul GRC voters if you vote our team in Singaporeans save not one not two but three ministerial salaries. And there is something else that is beautiful. Vote us in. You will get the caliber of our team without having to pay 1 cent in ministerial salaries. And if we are voted in, I would like to say this to DPM Gun's good friend, the prime minister and finance minister. It is this that if Pongal GRC voters vote in our team, Pongol would have saved Singapore. one minister's not just one minister's salary but three minister's salary. $1 million times three * 5 years that's $15 million. Now you vote in our team. Singapore saves $15 million. Please, Mr. Finance Minister, Mr. Prime Minister returned some of that to Pongol because that $15 million was not raised but through GST or other taxes. It is brought to Singapore by the voters of Pongol GRC and the only right and fair thing to do is to use some part of that to build covered walkways and everything else that Pongal residents tell us is a priority to be done. So, so DPM gun um really you don't have to talk to your good friend. We have a solution here. Now next ask yourself this. If the PAP is so confident that they have won the trust of Pongul residents and delivered, why did they have to parachute in DPM gun at the very last minute? No, wait. No, no booing, please. It's it's a serious question. You remember I have said publicly in my interview to the Straits Times that I do not want to be parachuted in anywhere safe. right now. I I have searched all the news reports and I have not found anything any report where DPM gun has said I am sick and tired of this safe GRC and I want to be parachuted in somewhere unsafe. So, so why did they parachute DPM gun into Pongal at the last minute? Why are they so insecure? I will tell you why. They they know they have not given Pongal GRC residents their all. We our team will give you our all. Also, Mr. Gun Kimyong has said that he will speak with his good friend PM and finance minister Lawrence Wong on funding for more walkways. Now let let me understand this. What was Senior Minister Tio Chihan doing 20 years when he was helming Pongul Pastor Pongul GRC? Was was he not good friends with the prime minister? Did he not ask the prime minister for more support for necessary infrastructure upgrading in Pongul. Now besides residents, let's let me make this other point. These are public funds. It does not matter whether we are or not good friends with the prime minister. It does not matter whether he accepts our offer to play the guitar and the saxophone together. If the infrastructure is good for residents, we too can ask for it and that money must be provided because it is your money. Let me next come to the second big point that Tongul residents have asked us to address. Isn't there a risk? They say that we might lose DPM gun if we vote for the workers party. Now, like I said, no booing any individual. That's not who we are, right? Let's deal with the issues. Let me start out by saying this. I I like DPM gun. We have met we have met on the ground several times during this campaign and he's a very pleasant person. But the question to ask is who put DPM at risk in Pongol GRC. Meanwhile, Meanwhile, Meanwhile, Mr. Victor is coasting in Angokyo. Let me tell you, there is really no worry about DPM leaving because he is 65 years old and has candidly admitted initially he was not keen to accept the DPM role. So, we can thank DPM gun for his service, but he reflects the past, not the future. Second, DPM Gun can still continue to contribute to Singapore even if he's not a political office holder. Remember Mr. Chi Ming, you you know the government can make two roles available for Mr. Chi Ming and Mr. and DPM gun after this election and they can keep each other company. Third, this election is not about whether you have senior office holders in this GRC. It's about the future direction of this country. The PAP has lost their bearings. And let me explain why. Just a few days ago, Mr. Lawrence Wong said I warned against voting more opposition MPs because he said that will mean an additional wealth tax to those living in private estates and lended property. You know I cannot imagine a statement that is more out of touch with what is happening on the ground in the anxiety of Singaporeans. Singapore's inequality has skyrocketed and the prime minister is effectively saying to everyone, vote for the PAP so the rich in private estates and lended property do not have to worry about paying more from proposals on increasing the wealth tax. When the prime minister or the PAP warns about more taxes for landed property owners, you know who they are worried about. It is not you. That is what I mean when I say the direction is completely wrong. Now the responsible who are rich in S or the responsible rich in Singapore know that inequality is a threat and we need to address it. The Workers Party will address it. We will speak up boldly for ordinary Singaporeans. Now let me next say this. What is critical for us on the other side is fair politics and accountability. A lot has been said about the alian deal. Mr. Chiang was head of NTU at the time and he saw no problem with it. Make no mistake, he dropped the ball. We now know that DPM gun also had a role in the transaction because he was chairman of MAS, the regulator ultimately deciding whether to approve this transaction or not. Mr. Tanu has now written an open letter to all residents of Pongol GRC asking serious questions of DPM gun. So let me say this to DPM gun and I say this respectfully DPM gun will you answer Mr. Tanu chair's questions because they are important questions being asked on behalf of all Singaporeans and DPM gun. If you will not answer, please tell us why you will not answer. Because this is about accountability and real leadership never fears scrutiny. It welcomes it. So let me very quickly wrap up my third point. Will there be instability if you vote the opposition? The answer is no. Make no mistake in this election the PAP will be returned to power. Mr. Lawrence Wong will be prime minister. He will be supported by the civil service and President Tarman is there as the final check and you will have a strong loyal opposition. One loyal to Singaporeans that that my friends that does not weaken Singapore that makes Singapore stronger. True stability, true stability comes from confidence, not from controlling 90% of parliament. Now, your vote is going to be an important signal to the government. They will be looking at two things. What is the PAP's vote in this election? Will it go below 60% and if so, how much? 58, 57, 56. And they will be looking at how many more GRC's and SMC's does the Workers Party and other opposition MPs secure. That is your strongest message to the government about what they need to do. Use that power. In conclusion, in closing, remember when you get into the voting booth, Pongol GRC residents, you're not voting just for Pongul. You are voting for the future direction of Singapore. And the hopes of thousands and thousands and thousands of Singaporeans are in your hands. Not just and you'll be voting not just for present generations but generations unborn who will thank you if you open up Singapore to the Workers Party with a stronger presence in parliament. It's a huge huge privilege you have. You can shape history. you can bend it in a more positive direction. Don't miss this opportunity. The time for change is now. Bless you all. Vote Workers Party. Okay, thank you Harapun. I mean HR. Okay, next up our second gen and a leader for all Singaporeans, Mr. Pritam Singh. Good evening voters of Bongol and all Singaporeans. Have you been affected by the super fast rising cost of living? My colleagues and I did what we could in parliament to stop the PAP from raising the GST when inflation was raging. After the first increase from 7% to 8% we said to the PAP defer the increase you had planned before COVID and before the Russia Ukraine war. The PAP says that the whole world was facing inflation. Yes, it's true that inflation worsened as we exited CO and galloped further ahead with the Russia Ukraine war. But which ruling party anywhere in the world increased goods and services taxes when the winds of inflation were raging the strongest? Which government turbocharged inflation with a consumption tax hike? Nobody did except the PAP. The PAP says there will be increases in healthcare expenditure and other costs and revenue is needed. Yes, both a growing population and an aging population mean higher government spending. But let me ask you, could the GST increase have been postponed? Of of course it could have been postponed. After COVID, there was a political window to defer raising GST and give Singaporeans some breathing space. But when the Workers Party questioned the PAP in parliament during the budget debate this year, the Prime Minister responded to my speech asking, "How did the PAP turbocharge inflation? Doesn't he know? The Monetary Authority of Singapore, which is under the Prime Minister's office, told Parliament in 2024 that a GST hike could increase inflation by up to 40%. Isn't that turbocharging? Singaporeans have had to tighten our belts due to the worst inflation we have seen in decades. Everything is more expensive. Even these elections are more expensive. In 2020, each candidate could spend $4 per voter. Now, the elections department has increased this to $5 per voter. 25% more, not 2% more. Food prices in hawker centers have increased by just as much, if not more. Many Singaporeans rely on CPF retirement payouts because they have stopped working. These payouts do not increase with inflation and so our seniors are hard hit. The real tragedy is the PAP had enough fiscal room to avoid making things worse for Singaporeans. For this past parliamentary term, we know that the government had a surplus of more than $14 billion. With such a surplus, will the PAP now have the courage to admit that the decision to raise the GST in 2023 and 2024 was poorly timed? There is still time for the PAP to admit to this and apologize. Polling day is on Saturday. Still got time. I said in parliament that only the PAP can answer to Singaporeans why it raised the GST when it did. We are still waiting for a sensible answer because all the surpluses for this term as per our constitution have been locked up in the reserves and cannot be used for current spending. After the PM questioned where the turbocharging on on inflation was, one of his ministers said we can debate about the best time to have a GST hike. But my fellow Singaporeans, we do not need to debate this. A political party which claims it has the back of Singaporeans should not worsen cost of living pain by increasing GST when inflation is already raging. No government in the world will do this if it has got the back of its citizens and to rub salt into the wood. One PAP MP in parliament in supporting the PAP GST hike said that while, and I quote, "We do not like any pain at all, a little pain is necessary because it is what makes us alert, it is what keeps us alive." Singaporeans are asking why did the PAP have to inflict more pain on us? We are already in pain because of global inflation. Why must you make things worse? But even as we wait long long for a satisfactory answer, we must ask a fundamental question. All of us must ask a fundamental question. How does the PAP get away with such decisions such as increasing GST at such a bad time? The answer is simple. The political pressure that it faces from elected Workers Party MPs is not enough for now. So you might reasonably ask if Workers Party MPs were not able to stop the GST increases, why elect us? Let me give you two reasons. One reason is this. The PAP cares deeply about its percentage of votes and the number of seats it wins. Vote share and seats are how PAP politicians judge each other. These are the PAP's KPIs. You as the voter can tell the PAP what you want by voting for the workers party. When the PAP loses votes and seats to the workers party, it has to take corrective action. It will think twice or even three times before further raising the GST or implementing other policies that people object to or at the very least the PAP will consider the timing of their policies much more carefully. That would be an excellent outcome for Singapore. The second reason to vote the Workers Party is this. When there are Workers Party MPs in parliament, we ask the questions that Singaporeans want to ask. The PAP has no choice but to try to justify its decisions and actions in parliament. And when we offer alternative policies, we put such options into public discussion. And the PAP must respond. The Workers Party is not naive, nor are we populists. We are a party that does its homework. We know that Singapore will have rising expenditures in healthcare and increased HDB subsidies to finance HDB's deficit. But who should determine how future spending should be funded? Not the PAP on its own. It should be Singaporeans. If you give us your vote, the Workers Party will debate with the PAP on this and represent you faithfully. Without the Workers Party working for Singapore in Parliament, the PAP will have a free reign to do whatever it wants. And when you give feedback that you are in pain, what will a PAP MP whose party has a super majority in parliament tell you? He will tell you pain is good. It makes you feel alive. From 2020 to 2024, about $115 billion from NIRC contributions were added to our reserves. This $115 billion is the investment return from our reserves and it includes things such as dividends from our assets. Up to 50% can be used for the yearly budget of the NIRC, but the other 50% goes back into the reserves. Following the rules in the constitution, not a scent of this investment return that goes back into the reserves can be spent to help Singaporeans today. For comparison, about $43 billion was spent to fight COVID. The PAP said this represented 20 years worth of past budget surpluses. 20 years. But the $115 billion collected through NIRC receipts from 2020 to 2024, which went into the reserves, is close to three times the amount of money spent to fight COVID, which the PAP called the crisis of a generation. And the 115 billion was accumulated in just 5 years. With so much accumulated, could the PAP have postponed or even cancelled the GST increase? Yes, it could have. On the use of the reserves to fight COVID, the Workers Party, specifically the Senkang GRC MP, Mr. Luis Chua, asked the PAP a direct question in parliament, and it was this. After the largest withdrawal of our reserves since independence to fight COVID, he asked, "Were our total reserves higher or lower than before CO?" The PAP couldn't even give a straight answer. Instead, the PAP said the reserves continue to grow. That was not the question. To the PAP, just answer the question. Now, let's be clear. Saving for the future is certainly a good thing. It is prudent. But in Singapore, with more than 80% of land in government hands, Singaporeans should never be shy to ponder and ask, "How much is enough for the reserves? Under what circumstances should or can we use it to look after our people? We live in a country where CPF retirement payouts are not inflation indexed and where parents wonder if their children will be able to afford HTB flats, much less private property. We must continue to question in good faith whether we are overburdening the current generations even as we look to secure Singapore for future generations. My fellow Singaporeans, there is nothing wrong with asking such questions. But I have not heard any PAP MP ask the tough questions. Nor have I heard many of them ask tough questions that directly question PAP government policy. As for DPM Gimong, the leader of the Pongol the PAP Pongol GRC team, should Pongol voters choose him and his team? Let me share a fact about Mr. Gun. In the PAP's party elections in November 2024, just last year, he was not elected into the PAP central executive committee. This is very strange for a deputy prime minister. Could it be that he was ready to retire and did not plan to run in these elections? If so, can he be so critical to the PM's plans? You mean the PM has no one else in his cabinet that can negotiate with the United States on tariffs? If this is true, to quote Senior Minister Lisen Lung, Ah, remember what happened to DPMH when he abandoned Temp GRC at the last minute to contest East Coast GRC in G 2020. He was supposed to be our next prime minister. All lined up, ready to take off. But then the PAP tells us sorry runway too short bite where DPM hang has now retired from politics but I'm sure he will continue to contribute to Singapore voters of Bongol Mr. Gimyong is older than the now retired DPM Hang if elected. In my view, he's going to be a one-term MP. DPM Gun says he and the PM are friends. I am sorry, Pongul, but I cannot say that the prime minister and I are friends. But do I need to be his friend for taxpayer funding to be allocated to Pongal? No. As a Singaporean, I expect fair allocation of taxpayer taxpayer resources to all our people. and the civil service will allocate funds and projects fairly. Here are just a few reasons why I say so. In my ward of UNOS in Aljun GRC, despite being in workers parties hands for the last 14 years, a poly clinic will open next year. The Eastern General Hospital is also under construction in the UNOS ward of Aljun GRC. There are two MRT stations in my ward, both of which which were built after 2011. The PAP has learned through the years that putting opposition wards last for upgrading and last for national projects creates a backlash against them in all constituencies in Singapore. So I have every confidence Bongol will be well served. And if not, I invite the PAP Pongul team to list for the people of Pongol which projects and which initiatives you will cancel if you lose Pongol GRC. Say so now so we can see how much you really care for the residents of Bongol. What about in parliament? Which candidates will make a greater difference for you? Three of the PAP Pongol candidates are political office holders as the leader of the WP Pongal team Mr. Harprit Singh has shared. Three of them being political office holders. Do you think they can question the government? They are the government. Who will ask the hard questions in parliament if there are concerns from Pongol residents? Only the WP Pongol candidates. Now, in my party political broadcast that was televised last week, I shared that in March 2023, despite their super majority, the PAP almost could not pass an amendment to our constitution in parliament. Lucky for them, there were workers party MPs around. In our parliamentary democracy, do you know whose job it is to ensure that there are enough PAP MPs around to vote on laws proposed by the PAP government? One man has this responsibility in parliament in in parliament. It is the government whip. Do you know who that person was in March 2023? It was the PP Pong team's very own Janil Puer. As all NSmen know, you must always check strength. You must make sure no soldier is left behind. This is drummed into SF commanders when they are NSFs. But in March 2023, Janel Pucherry did not ensure there were enough PAP MPs around to vote for a PAP government's constitutional amendment. But lucky for him, the Workers Party MPs were present and ready to work for Singapore. residents of Pongul, only the opposition can challenge and push the PAP to listen harder and to explain and defend its position. And if it is clear that there is far stronger public support for the Workers Party's position, the PAP will have to change course. We are here to make the PAP more sensitive to your needs and your concerns. A PAP MP will simply defend the PAP at all costs. In the previous term of government, one PAP MP in order to promote skills upgrading proposed that university degrees should expire after 5 years. How do the PAP MPs come up with such proposals? I think their super majority, the overconfidence created by having more than 90% of the seats in parliament is the reason why. Let's just let's just unpack this expiring degrees proposal. You mean parents are supposed to spend a bomb on their children's university education only for the degree to expire? And this is after negotiating one of the most stressful education systems in the world. Why should our degrees expire? So that the PAP can push skills upgrading through crazy ideas that don't make sense. My fellow Singaporeans, lion nurses and lions of Bongol, general elections come around only once every 5 years. It is really tough for the opposition to assemble a slate as strong as the one you have before you in Harprit Singh, Alexis Tang Yen, Jackson and Alia Ma Pong team, please stand up and let our voters see you. A vote for the PAP in Pongul will not result in a more balanced political system for Singapore. The PAP does not need your vote to form the government, but your vote is really precious for the Workers Party. We ask you to vote in Singapore's interest and help Singapore achieve a more balanced parliament where your voice is heard. Pongal GRC, your role in these elections is very significant. You see how the PAP government shifts electoral boundaries every 5 years. About one month before the elections, the PAP government announced that McFersonen SMC where they secured a healthy majority in the past elections suddenly became part of Marine Parade GRC. Is this acceptable? But the terrain in Pongul is different. How much can the PAP government shift electoral boundaries here? Not as much as in Marine Parade Brattle Heights GRC. The PAP government's electoral boundary review committee cannot merge Pongo GRC into Joo. By the next elections, Marine Parade Brad Heights can easily see its boundaries change again in the future. It can become Brad Heights Pong Pass GRC or Mount Batton SMC can be brought into Marine Parade, Brad Heights GRC. Who knows? These changes may harm the Workers Party's chances of building a more balanced political system. So, Pongol, you can send a strong message to the PAP. You can change some electoral boundaries every year, but don't mess with Pongol. Don't mess with Singaporeans. My dear voters of Bongol, if you vote the Workers Party, you will be doing an incredible service to the nation. Service based on justice and equality. You will show the PAP the limits and futility of redrawing boundaries and announcing them. in just one or two months before general elections. This will hit the PAP government hard right between the eyes. But if you vote for the Workers Party, it will also be in line with PM Laurren Wong's Forward Singapore vision of a new social compact with Singaporeans. One where all of us matter equally. Pongul, your mission, should you choose to accept it, will benefit not just you, but all Singaporeans who want a fair and accountable electoral boundary review process so that we remain on track to be a society based on justice and equality. Bongol GRC elect the Workers Party candidates. This is not mission impossible. It is mission possible. You can do it. Vote for the workers party working for Singapore. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great honor and great pleasure to introduce the final speaker of this rally. She is the leader of the S Kang GRC team and her name is Hering Row. residents of Fungo GRC. Residents, residents of Pongo GRC, Jalan Caillou SMC and Sang Kang GRC. Good evening. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Fore woman. for woman. Today I want to talk about my vision for Singapore. In this changed world, I have a vision for Singapore. A healthier Singapore. a healthier Singapore where our people don't just struggle to keep up, but a Singapore where our people flourish. To build a healthier Singapore, we need a healthier political system. A healthier Singapore where we don't just react to illness, but have space for health to flourish. clean air, healthy food, green spaces, fair wages, and strong communities. A healthier Singapore is also one where town council can succeed, whether it is opposition run or PAP controlled. against the odds. We've shown in Sang this can be done. When we were elected MPs after GE 2020, the WP team were faced with a task of taking over a town council from two town councils. from two different managing agents. We had to harmonize in the midst of disruptions caused by CO. When both managing agents refused to extend their contracts beyond 2023, we took the difficult decision to directly run SKTC. Sang Kang Town Council hired directly and set up teams from scratch. We were supported by the experience of party colleagues and professionals working in town management for which we are deeply grateful. St. Gangtown Council achieved a clean audit for all its financial reports and achieved a green banding since the start for HDB's TCMR report in three out of four categories including cleanliness for ARA's management. SKTC was banded amber after we took over and through the hard work of the team brought it back into the green ban for financial year 2023. Sang Town Council also had a consistent green banding in its governance reports between financial year 2021 to financial year 2023. A healthier Singapore is one where a strong parliament, not just a strong government, puts the well-being of Singaporeans at the heart of its policies. Not one where the few in power decide that they know best for the many. A healthier Singapore is one where we have more voices in parliament with more of us in parliament. We have more time to speak up, more space to scrutinize bad policies and more weight to push for policies that benefit more Singaporeans. We have seen this work before. Last year, WPMPs led the charge in parliament against the sale of MTU income. In August, the PAP government heard the people loud and clear. They rushed to pass legislation a few months later to block the sale. Then the workers party abstained because existing MAS powers would have allowed the same result without new legislation. And I explained this in parliament. That is why the WP did what any responsible opposition should do. Agree with the outcome but not oppose the rush legislation for the sake of opposing. Overreacting and passing new legislation to give the new the government new powers it doesn't need is bad for the rule of law. And the main takeaway from the botched alon's deal is this. The government responds to the opposition. It responds to you. But even when the government overreacts, the opposition can be trusted to keep the wheel steady. So when enough public pressure builds, when enough opposition MPs voice concerns, the government U-turns. We've seen it before. We've seen it with the blocking of the NTU income deal, with CPF housing rules, with cost of living relief. So yes, your vote, your voice matters towards a healthier Singapore. We know the sun doesn't rise because of us, but we can certainly make the PAP wake up its idea. Because a healthier opposition isn't just built on policies alone. It is built off the back of its people, on our strength, on our compassion, our courage. We see so many of you doing the work to keep our nation going. You do so quietly caring for an aging parent, helping a neighbor who struggles, mentoring a youth who has lost their way. It is why we have fought hard to measure your contributions in ways that our current measure of GDP does not. Like good health, it is easy to take the presence of a loyal, responsible opposition as a given. Yet, have we ever truly stopped to pause and think about what the health of our political system would be if we fail to elect enough opposition MPs to parliament? 10 years ago, this nearly happened. Faced with widespread fears about a freak election making the PAP lose power, we instead nearly face a wipeout of elected opposition MPs. Mr. Laang's Aljunet GRC team narrowly scraped through with less than 51% of the votes that year. If we had lost our Junit GRC with just one or no opposition MPs elected into parliament, do you think that the PAP will listen to you? Do you think that we can count on only our nominated MPs to uphold the health of our political system? No. Just a few days before budget 2025, two NMPs stepped down because they suddenly thought that they wanted to become elected and under the PAP banner. Perhaps someone should ask them what they believe elected MPs can do that NMPPs cannot. Dear voters, I call on you today. Let us not again risk losing elected opposition MPs in parliament. Instead, vote to build a healthier Singapore. one that sees you, supports you, and works with you. Five years ago, you made your vote count and elected the Workers Party Sang GRC team into Parliament. Today, today we are asking that you vote once again to allow the workers party to continue working for Singapore, not just in Sang but in Akang, Aljunit, Pongo, Tines, Jalan Caillou, East Coast and Tines Chunkat. Hey, vote for the Workers Party so that we can all of us continue to work together for our beloved country, our Singapore. Let us work to build a stronger, healthier Singapore in order to face the stormy seas together. Thank you. We have come to the end of the workers parties rally. Please look out for our next rally in the news and in our social media. At this point, we would like to advise everyone to disperse in an orderly and safe manner via the two exits. Please do take guidance from the police and the signages. Thank you. Please have a safe trip home. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hi guys. Hello. Hello. Okay. Hallelujah.